 cid cid cid ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineDownloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine cid cid cid ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineNote Before using this information and the product it supports be sure to read the general information under AppendixA Important safety instructions on page AppendixB Wireless related information on page AppendixC Warranty information on page andAppendixD Notices on page. First Edition January The following paragraph does not apply to the United Kingdom or any country where such provisions are inconsistent with local law INTERNATIONALBUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION PROVIDES THIS PUBLICATION AS IS WITHOUT WARRANTY OFANY KIND EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NON INFRINGEMENT MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FORAPARTICULAR PURPOSE. Some states do not allow disclaimer of express or implied warranties in certain transactions therefore this statement may not apply to you. This information could include technical inaccuracies or typographical errors. Changes are periodically made to the information herein these changes will be incorporated in new editions of the publication. IBM may make improvements and or changes in the product s and or the program s described in this publication at any time without notice. IBM may use or distribute any of the information you supply in any way it believes appropriate without incurring any obligation to you. Copyright International Business Machines Corporation. All rights reserved. US Government Users Restricted Rights Use duplication or disclosure restricted by GSAADP Schedule Contract with IBM Corp. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineImportant Notice for Users Important Regulatory Notice for Users The ThinkPad R computer complies with the radio frequency and safety standards of any country or region in which it has been approved for wireless use. You are requested to install and use your ThinkPad computer in strict accordance with the local RF regulations. Before you use the ThinkPad R computer please find and read Regulatory Notice for ThinkPad R Series the notice that supplements this Service and Troubleshooting Guide. The notice is included in the package with this publication. Information about hard disk capacity Instead of providing a recovery CD or a Windows CD with your computer IBM provides simpler methods of accomplishing the tasks typically associated with these CDs. The files and programs for these alternative methods are on your hard disk which eliminates having to locate misplaced CDs and problems associated with using an incorrect CD version. The complete backup of all the files and programs that IBM preinstalled on your computer resides in a hidden section or partition of the hard disk. Although hidden the backups in the partition consume hard disk space. Therefore when checking the capacity of your hard disk according to Windows you might note that the total capacity of the disk appears to be smaller than anticipated. This discrepancy is explained by the contents of the hidden partition. For more information about recovering your hard disk to the original preinstalled contents refer to your on system help source Access IBM. Press the blue Access IBM button or click the Access IBM icon on your desktop and then browse the Learn section for various topics that cover backing up and recovering. Copyright IBM Corp. iii Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineiv ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineFinding information with Access IBM The blue Access IBM button can help you in many situations when your computer is working normally and even when it is not. At your desktop press the Access IBM button to open Access IBM. Access IBM is your on board computer help center that brings you informative illustrations and easy to follow instructions for getting started and staying productive. You can also use the Access IBM button to interrupt the startup sequence of your computer and start the Access IBM Predesktop Area. If Windows does not start correctly press the Access IBM button during the startup sequence of your computer and start the Access IBM Predesktop Area. Use this area to run diagnostics restore your backups assuming you have made backups using IBM Rapid Restore PC restore to factory contents ie what was there when you received your computer start a utility that enables you to change your startup sequence and get essential system information and start the IBM BIOS Setup Utility where you can check and change BIOS settings. Press the Access IBM button to open the application that brings all of IBM s resources to you. On the next page you will see the Welcome page of Access Copyright IBM Corp. v Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineIBM that explains what each part of Access IBM holds to help you. vi ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSome of the topics in your help system contain brief video clips that show you how to perform certain tasks such as replacing your battery inserting a PC Card or upgrading your memory. Click play button to watch the video clip. Finding information withAccess IBM vii Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineviii ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineContents Important Notice for Users iii Getting help by fax Important Regulatory Notice for Users iii Calling IBM Information about hard disk capacity iii Getting help around the world Finding information with Access IBM v Appendix A. Important safety instructions Modem safety information Chapter. Overview of your new ThinkPad Laser compliance statement computer Your ThinkPad at a glance Appendix B. Wireless related information Features Wireless Interoperability Specifications Usage environment and your Health Caring for your ThinkPad computer Appendix C. Warranty information Chapter. Solving computer problems Warranty Period Diagnosing problems Warranty service and support Troubleshooting Before you call for service Error messages Calling for service Errors without messages IBM Statement of Limited Warranty A password problem Z A power switch problem Part General Terms Keyboard problems Part Country unique Terms UltraNav problems Standby or hibernation problems Appendix D. Notices Computer screen problems Processing date data Battery problems References to the Web site addresses Hard disk drive problems Electronic emission notices Startup problems Telecommunication notices Other problems Fax Branding Starting IBM BIOS Setup Utility Industry Canada requirements Recovering pre installed software Notice for Australia Upgrading the hard disk drive Notice for New Zealand Replacing the battery Notice for European Union countries Install a memory module Product notice requirements Environmental notices for Japan Chapter. Getting help and service from Trademarks IBM Getting help and service Index Getting help on the Web Copyright IBM Corp. ix Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search enginex ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineChapter. Overview of your new ThinkPad computer Your ThinkPad at a glance Specifications Features Caring for your ThinkPad computer Copyright IBM Corp. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineYour ThinkPad at a glance Your ThinkPad at a glance Front view Rear view ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineFeatures Features Processor v Intel Mobile Pentium Processor M v Intel Mobile Celeron Processor v Intel Pentium M Processor Memory v Built in MB MB or MB depending on the model v Maximum MB Storage device v. inch hard disk drive GB GB or GB depending on the model Display The color display uses TFT technology v Size. inch. inch or. inch v Resolution LCD Up to by depending on the model External monitor Up to by v Brightness control Keyboard v key key or key v UltraNav TrackPoint and touch pad or TrackPoint only depending on the model v Fn key function v Access IBM button v Volume control buttons v ThinkLight on some models v Forward and Back keys Chapter. Overview of your new ThinkPad computer Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineFeatures Diskette drive available on selected models To get the best performance from your diskette drives use high quality diskettes such as IBM diskettes that meet or exceed the following standards v MB. inch unformatted diskette ANSI American National Standards Institute X. ISO International Standards Organization ECMA European Computer Manufacturers Association v MB. inch unformatted diskette ANSI X. ISO ECMA External interface v Parallel connector IEEE A v External monitor connector v PC Card slot Type II or Type III PC Card v Stereo Headphone jack v Microphone jack v S Video out connector on some models v Universal Serial Bus USB. connectors on some models v Universal Serial Bus USB. connectors on some models v Infrared port on some models v RJ telephone connector available if the modem feature is installed v RJ Ethernet connector v Ultrabay Plus or Optical storage drive in the fixed bay depending on the model v Port Replicate connector on some models v IEEE port on some models v Integrated Bluetooth feature on some models v Integrated Microphone v Integrated wireless LAN IEEE. b feature on some models v Integrated wireless LAN IEEE. a b feature on some models ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSpecifications Specifications Size With a. or. inch display v Width mm. in. v Depth mm. in. v Height. mm. in. With a. inch display v Width mm. in. v Depth. mm. in. v Height. mm. in. Environment v Maximum altitude without pressurization m ft v Temperature At altitudes up to m ft Operating with no diskette to C to F Operating with a diskette to C to F Not operating to C to F At altitudes above m ft Maximum operating temperature. C F Note When you charge the battery pack its temperature must be at least C F. v Relative humidity Operating with no diskette in the drive to Operating with a diskette in the drive to Heat output v W Btu hr maximum Power source ac adapter v Sine wave input at to Hz v Input rating of the ac adapter V ac to Hz Battery pack depending on the model v cell Lithium ion Li Ion battery pack Nominal voltage. V dc Capacity. AH Chapter. Overview of your new ThinkPad computer Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSpecifications v cell Lithium ion Li Ion battery pack Nominal voltage. V dc Capacity. AH ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineCaring for your ThinkPad computer Caring for your ThinkPad computer Though your computer is designed to function reliably in normal work environments you need to use common sense in handling it. By following these important tips you will get the most use and enjoyment out of your computer. Important tips Be careful about where and how you work v Do not leave the base of your computer in contact with your lap or any part of your body for an extended period when the computer is functioning or when the battery is charging. Your computer dissipates some heat during normal operation. This heat is a function of the level of system activity and battery charge level. Extended contact with your body even through clothing could cause discomfort or eventually a skin burn. v Place liquids away from your computer to avoid spills and keep your computer away from water to avoid the danger of electrical shock. v Store packing materials safely out of the reach of children to prevent the risk of suffocation from plastic bags. v Keep your computer away from magnets activated cellular phones electrical appliances or speakers within cm in. v Avoid subjecting your computer to extreme temperatures below C F or above C F. Be gentle with your computer v Avoid placing any objects including paper between the display and the keyboard or the palm rest. v Do not drop bump scratch twist hit vibrate push or place heavy objects on your computer display or external devices. v Your computer display is designed to be opened and used at an angle slightly greater than degrees. Do not open the display beyond degrees as this might damage the computer hinge. Carry your computer properly v Before moving your computer be sure to remove any media turn off attached devices and disconnect cords and cables. v Be sure your computer is in standby or hibernation mode or turned off before moving it. This will prevent damage to the hard disk drive and data loss. v When picking up your open computer hold it by the bottom. Do not pick up or hold your computer by the display. Chapter. Overview of your new ThinkPad computer Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineCaring for your ThinkPad computer v Use a quality carrying case that provides adequate cushion and protection. Do not pack your computer in a tightly packed suitcase or bag. Handle storage media and drives properly v Avoid inserting diskettes at an angle and attaching multiple or loose diskette labels as these can lodge in the drive. v If your computer comes with a CD DVD or CD RW DVD drive do not touch the surface of a disc or the lens on the tray. v Wait until you hear the CD or DVD click into the center pivot of the CD DVD or CD RW DVD drive before closing the tray. v When installing your hard disk diskette CD DVD or CD RW DVD drive follow the instructions shipped with your hardware and apply pressure only where needed on the device. See Access IBM your on board help system for information on replacing your hard disk drive open Access IBM by pressing the Access IBM button Take care in setting passwords v Remember your passwords. If you forget a supervisor or hard disk password IBM will not reset it and you might have to replace your system board or hard disk drive. Other important tips v Your computer modem might use only an analog telephone network or public switched telephone network PSTN. Do not connect the modem to a PBX private branch exchange or any other digital telephone extension line because this could damage your modem. Analog phone lines are often used in homes while digital phone lines are often used in hotels or office buildings. If you are not sure which kind of phone line you are using contact your telephone company. v Your computer might have both an Ethernet connector and a modem connector. If so be sure to connect your communication cable to the correct one so your connector is not damaged. See Access IBM your on board help system for information on the location of these connectors press the Access IBM button to open Access IBM. v Register your ThinkPad products with IBM refer to the Web page www.ibm.com pc register. This can help authorities return your computer to you if it is lost or stolen. Registering your computer also enables IBM to notify you about possible technical information and upgrades. v Only an authorized IBM ThinkPad repair technician should disassemble and repair your computer. v Do not modify or tape the latches to keep the display open or closed. v Take care not to turn your computer over while the ac adapter is plugged in. This could break the adapter plug. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineCaring for your ThinkPad computer v Turn off your computer if you are replacing a device in a device bay or else verify that the device is warm or hot swappable. v If you exchange drives in your computer reinstall the plastic bezel faces if supplied. v Store your external and removable hard disk diskette CD DVD and CD RW DVD drives in the appropriate containers or packaging when they are not being used. Cleaning your computer Occasionally clean your computer as follows v Use a soft cloth moistened with non alkaline detergent to wipe the exterior of the computer. v Avoid spraying cleaner directly on the display or the keyboard. v Gently wipe the display with a soft dry cloth. If you see a scratch like mark on your display it might be a stain transferred from the keyboard or the TrackPoint stick when the cover was pressed from the outside. Wipe or dust the stain gently with a soft dry cloth. If the stain remains moisten a soft lint free cloth with water that does not contain impurities wring out as much of the water as you can and then wipe the display again. Be sure to dry the display before closing it. Chapter. Overview of your new ThinkPad computer Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineCaring for your ThinkPad computer ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineChapter. Solving computer problems Diagnosing problems Battery problems Troubleshooting Hard disk drive problems Error messages Startup problems Errors without messages Other problems A password problem Starting IBM BIOS Setup Utility A power switch problem Recovering pre installed software Keyboard problems Upgrading the hard disk drive UltraNav problems Replacing the battery Standby or hibernation problems Install a memory module Computer screen problems Copyright IBM Corp. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Diagnosing problems If you have a problem with your computer you can test it by using PC Doctor for Windows. To run PC Doctor for Windows do as follows. Click Start Move the cursor to All Programs in Windows other than Windows XP Programs and then to PC Doctor for Windows Click PC Doctor Choose one of test from either the Device Categories or the Test Scripts. Attention Running any tests may take up to several minutes or longer. Make sure you have time to run the entire test do not interrupt the test while it is running. The System Test of the Test Scripts runs some tests of critical hardware components but it does not run all of the diagnostic tests in PC Doctor for Windows. If PC Doctor for Windows reports that all of the tests in the System Test have been run and that it has found no problems consider running more of the tests in PC Doctor for Windows. If you are preparing to contact IBM for support be sure to print the test log so that you can rapidly provide information to the help technician. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Troubleshooting If you do not find your problem here refer to Access IBM your on board help system. Open Access IBM by pressing the Access IBM button. The following section only describes problems that might prevent you from accessing this help system. Error messages Notes. In the charts x can be any character The version of PC Doctor referred to here is PC Doctor for Windows. Message Solution Bad CRC stop The EEPROM checksum is not correct block. Have the computer POST task serviced. System Security This message is displayed if you remove the Security Chip and reinstall it The System has been or install a new one. To clear the error enter the IBM BIOS Setup Utility. If tampered with. this does not solve the problem have the computer serviced. Bad SVP data stop Checksum of the supervisor password in the EEPROM is not correct. The POST task. system board should be replaced. Have the computer serviced. Bad CRC. Enter Checksum of the CRC setting in the EEPROM is not correct. Go to IBM BIOS Setup and load BIOS Setup Utility. Press F and then Enter to load the default setting. Press Setup defaults. F and then Enter to restart the system. Bad startup Checksum of the startup sequence setting in the EEPROM is not correct. Go sequence settings. Enter to IBM BIOS Setup Utility. Press F and then Enter to load the default BIOS Setup and load setting. Press F and then Enter to restart the system. Setup defaults. EAIA data access The access to EEPROM is failed. Have the computer serviced. error Invalid RFID The EEPROM checksum is not correct block and. The system board serialization information should be replaced and the box serial number needs to be reinstalled. Have area. the computer serviced. Invalid RFID The EEPROM checksum is not correct block and. The system board configuration should be replaced and the UUID needs to be reinstalled. Have the information area computer serviced. Critical low battery The computer turned off because the battery is low. Connect the ac adapter error to the computer and charge the battery or replace the battery with a fully charged one. System Security This message is displayed if you enter a wrong supervisor password more IBM Security password than three times. Confirm the supervisor password and try again. To clear retry count exceeded. the error enter the IBM BIOS Setup Utility. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Message Solution C More than one Remove either a Modem Mini PCI Card or a Modem Daughter Card modem devices are otherwise press Esc to ignore the warning message. If it does not solve this found. Remove one of problem have the computer serviced. them. Press Esc to continue. C More than one Your ThinkPad computer has a built in Ethernet feature and you cannot Ethernet devices are add another such feature by installing an Ethernet device such as a found. Remove one of Mini PCI Ethernet Card or an Ethernet Daughter Card. If this error message them. Press Esc to is displayed remove the Ethernet device that you installed. Otherwise press continue. Esc to ignore the warning message. If this does not solve the problem have the computer serviced. Hard disk error The hard disk is not working. Make sure that the hard disk drive is attached firmly. Run the IBM BIOS Setup Utility then make sure the hard disk drive is not disabled in the Startup menu. x Keyboard error Make sure that there are no objects placed on the keyboard or if you have one the external keyboard. Turn off the computer and turn off all attached devices. Turn on the computer first then turn on the attached devices. If you still see the same error code do the following If an external keyboard is connected do the following v Turn off the computer and disconnect the external keyboard then turn on the computer. Make sure that the built in keyboard operates correctly. If it does have the external keyboard serviced. v Make sure that the external keyboard is connected to the correct connector. Test the computer by using PC Doctor. v If the computer stops during the test have the computer serviced. Shadow RAM error The shadow RAM failed. Test your computer s memory with PC Doctor. If you added a memory module just before turning the computer on reinstall it. Then test the memory with PC Doctor. System RAM error The system RAM failed. Test your computer s memory with PC Doctor. If you added a memory module just before turning the computer on reinstall it. Then test the memory with PC Doctor. Extended RAM The extended RAM failed. Test your computer s memory with PC Doctor. If error you have increased memory just before turning the computer on reinstall it. Then test the memory with PC Doctor. System battery The backup battery which is used to preserve the configuration information error such as the date and time while the computer is turned off is depleted. Replace the battery and run IBM BIOS Setup Utility to verify the configuration. If you still have a problem have the computer serviced. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Message Solution System CMOS The system CMOS might have been corrupted by an application program. checksum bad The computer uses the default settings. Run IBM BIOS Setup Utility to reconfigure the settings. If you still see the same error code have the computer serviced. System timer error Have the computer serviced. Real time clock Have the computer serviced. error Date and time error Neither the date nor the time is set in the computer. Set the date and time using the IBM BIOS Setup Utility. Previous boot Your computer was previously unable to complete the boot process. incomplete Turn the computer off then turn it on to start the IBM BIOS Setup Utility. Verify the configuration and then restart the computer either by choosing the Exit Saving Changes option under the Restart item or by pressing F. If you still see the same error code have the computer serviced. D System cache error The cache is disabled. Have the computer serviced. F EISA CMOS not Have the computer serviced. writable F DMA test failed Have the computer serviced. F Software NMI Have the computer serviced. failed F Fail safe timer NMI Have the computer serviced. failed Unauthorized The Mini PCI network card is not supported on this computer. Remove it. network card is plugged in Power off and remove the miniPCI network card. The power on password A power on password or a supervisor password is set. Type the password prompt and press Enter to use the computer. If the power on password is not accepted a supervisor password might have been set. Type the supervisor password and press Enter. If you still see the same error message have the computer serviced. The hard disk password A hard disk password is set. Type the password and press Enter to use the prompt computer. If you still see the same error message have the computer serviced. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Message Solution Hibernation error The system configuration changed between the time your computer entered hibernation mode and the time it left this mode and your computer cannot resume normal operation. v Restore the system configuration to what it was before your computer entered hibernation mode. v If the memory size has been changed re create the hibernation file. Operating system not Verify the following found. v The hard disk drive is correctly installed. v A startable diskette is in the diskette drive If you still see the same error message check the boot sequence using the IBM BIOS Setup Utility. Fan error The cooling fan has failed. Have the computer serviced. EMM Not Installed Edit C CONFIG.SYS and change a line from Unable to Set Page device C WINDOWS EMM.EXE RAM Frame Base Address. to device C WINDOWS EMM.EXE NOEMS and save this file. CardBus Configuration Go to the IBM BIOS Setup Utility. Press F and then Enter to load the Error Device Disabled default setting. Press F and then Enter to restart the system. Thermal sensing error The thermal sensor is not functioning correctly. Have the computer serviced. Errors without messages Problem When I turn on the machine nothing appears on the screen and the machine does not beep while starting up. Note If you are not sure whether you heard any beeps turn off the computer then turn it on again and listen again. If you are using an external monitor refer to Computer screen problems on page Solution If a power on password is set press any key to display the power on password prompt and then type the correct password and press Enter. If the power on password prompt does not appear the brightness level might be set to minimum brightness. Adjust the brightness level by pressing the Fn Home. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems If the screen still remains blank make sure that v The battery is installed correctly. v The ac adapter is connected to the computer and the power cord is plugged into a working electrical outlet. v The computer power is on. Turn on the power switch again for confirmation. If these items are properly set and the screen remains blank have the computer serviced. Problem When I turn on the machine nothing appears on the screen but I hear two or more beeps. Solution Make sure that the memory card is installed correctly. If it is but the screen is still blank and you hear five beeps have the computer serviced. If you hear cycles of beeps each the Security Chip has a problem. Have the computer serviced. Problem When I turn on the machine only a white cursor appears on a blank screen. Solution Reinstall your operating system and turn on the computer. If you still see only the cursor on the screen have the computer serviced. Problem My screen goes blank while the computer is on. Solution Your screen saver or power management may be enabled. Touch the TrackPoint or the touch pad or press a key to exit the screen saver or press the power switch to resume from standby or hibernation. Problem The DOS full screen looks smaller. Solution If you use a DOS application that supports only x resolution VGA mode the screen image might look slightly distorted or appear smaller than the display size. This is to maintain compatibility with other DOS applications. To expand the screen image to the same size as the actual screen start the ThinkPad Configuration Program and click LCD then select the Screen expansion function. The image might still look slightly distorted. Note If your computer has a screen expansion function you can use the Fn F keys to expand the screen image. But you can not use this function in Windows environment. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems A password problem Problem I forgot my password. Solution If you forgot your power on password you must take your computer to an IBM authorized servicer or marketing representative to have the password canceled. If you forgot your hard disk password IBM will not reset your password or recover data from the hard disk. You must take your computer to an IBM authorized servicer or an IBM marketing representative to have the hard disk drive replaced. Proof of purchase is required and a fee will be charged for parts and service. If you forgot your supervisor password IBM will not reset your password. You must take your computer to an IBM authorized servicer or IBM marketing representative to have the system board replaced. Proof of purchase is required and a fee will be charged for parts and service. A power switch problem Problem The system does not respond and you cannot turn off the computer. Solution Turn off the computer by pressing and holding the power switch for seconds or more. If the computer is still not reset remove the ac adapter and the battery. Keyboard problems Problem The cursor does not move after the computer returns from one of the power management modes. Solution Make sure you followed the instructions correctly when you installed Windows with the Advanced Power Management APM option. Note The APM option is supported in Windows and Windows NT. Note Some models support Windows XP only. Problem Some or all of the keys on the keyboard do not work. Solution If the problem occurred immediately after the computer returned from standby mode enter the power on password if any is set. If an external keyboard is connected the numeric keypad on your computer does not work. Use the numeric keypad on the external keyboard. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems If an external numeric keypad or a mouse is connected. Turn off the computer Remove the external numeric keypad or the mouse Turn on the computer and try using the keyboard again. If the keyboard problem is resolved carefully reconnect the external numeric keypad external keyboard or mouse making sure that you have seated the connectors properly. If any keys on the keyboard still do not work have the external numeric keypad external keyboard or mouse serviced. Problem A number appears when you type a letter. Solution The numeric lock function is on. To disable it press and hold Shift then press NumLk. Problem Some or all of the keys on the external numeric keypad do not work. Solution Make sure that the external numeric keypad is correctly connected to the computer. Problem Some or all of the keys on the external keyboard do not work. Solution If you are using ThinkPad Port Replicator Port Replicator II or MiniDock make sure that the keyboard cable is correctly connected to the keyboard connector. If the connection is correct disconnect the cable and make sure that the built in keyboard operates properly. If the built in keyboard works there is a problem with the external keyboard. Try using a different external keyboard. Note Some models does not support Mini Dock Port Replicator and Port Replicator II. UltraNav problems Problem The cursor drifts when the computer is turned on or after it resumes normal operation. Solution The cursor might drift when you are not using the TrackPoint during normal operation. This is a normal characteristic of the TrackPoint and is not a defect. It will cease in several seconds if you wait without touching TrackPoint. Cursor drifting might occur for several seconds under the following conditions Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems v When the computer is turned on. v When the computer resumes normal operation. v When the TrackPoint is pressed for a long time. v When the temperature changes. Problem The PS Port mouse or the PS pointing device does not work. Solution Make sure that the TrackPoint and the touch pad are set to Automatic in the ThinkPad Configuration Program. Then detach the PS Port mouse or the PS pointing device and try using the TrackPoint and the touch pad. If the TrackPoint and the touch pad work the error might be due to the PS Port mouse or the PS pointing device. Note Some models have the TrackPoint only without a touch pad and its buttons. Make sure that the cable for the PS Port mouse or the PS pointing device is securely connected to ThinkPad Port Replicator Port Replicator II or MiniDock. Note For more information see the manual supplied with the mouse. Some models does not support Mini Dock Port Replicator and Port Replicator II. Problem The mouse buttons do not work. Solution If your ThinkPad computer has the TrackPoint only this problem may occur. Change the mouse driver to Standard PS Port Mouse and then reinstall IBM PS TrackPoint. Drivers are provided in the C IBMTOOLS DRIVERS directory on your hard disk drive. If your hard disk drive does not contain device drivers refer to the ThinkPad Web site. For access to this Web site open Access IBM by pressing the Access IBM button. Standby or hibernation problems Problem The computer enters standby mode unexpectedly. Solution If the processor reaches a temperature that is too high the computer automatically enters standby mode to allow the computer to cool and to protect the processor and other internal components. Also check the settings for standby mode using Battery MaxiMiser. Problem The computer enters standby mode immediately after Power on self test POST the standby indicator light turns on. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Solution Make sure that v The battery is charged. v The operating temperature is within the acceptable range. Refer to Specifications on page. If these items are correct have the computer serviced. Problem The critical low battery error message is displayed and the computer immediately turns off. Solution The battery power is getting low. Connect the ac adapter to the computer or replace the battery with a fully charged one. Problem When you take action to return from standby mode the computer display remains blank. Solution Check whether an external monitor was disconnected while the computer was in standby mode. Do not disconnect the external monitor while the computer is in standby mode or hibernation mode. If no external monitor is attached when the computer resumes the computer display remains blank and output is not displayed. This restriction does not depend on the resolution value. Press Fn F to bring up the computer display. Problem The computer does not return from standby mode or the standby indicator stays on and the computer does not work. Solution If the system does not return from standby mode it may have entered standby or hibernation mode automatically because the battery is depleted. Check the standby indicator. v If the standby indicator is on your computer is in standby mode. Connect the ac adapter to the computer then press Fn. v If the standby indicator is off your computer is in hibernation mode or power off state. Connect the ac adapter to the computer then press power button to resume operation. If the system still does not return from standby mode your system may stop responding and you cannot turn off the computer. In this case you need to reset the computer. If you have not saved your data it may be lost. To reset the computer press and hold the power button for seconds or more. If the system is still not reset remove the ac adapter and the battery. Problem Your computer does not enter standby or hibernation mode. Solution Check whether any option has been selected that would disable your computer from entering standby or hibernation mode. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Problem The computer does not enter standby mode as set by the timer under Windows or Windows NT. Note Some models support Windows XP only. Solution For Windows The generic CD ROM or DVD ROM driver for Windows accesses the internal CD ROM or DVD ROM drive every seconds to see whether a CD ROM is inserted there. This prevents your computer from entering standby mode even after a timeout. To enable the computer to enter standby mode do the following. Click Start Move the cursor to Settings and Control Panel Click Control Panel and then double click System Click the Device Manager tab Click the mark of CD ROM Double click the name of the CD ROM or DVD ROM Click the Settings tab Clear the Auto insert notification check box. Windows no longer detects the insertion of a CD ROM or a DVD ROM automatically. For Windows NT If you enable the CD ROM AutoRun feature the timer cannot trigger the computer to enter standby mode. To enable the timer disable the AutoRun feature by editing the configuration information in the registry as follows HKEY LOCAL MACHINE SYSTEM CurrentControlSet Services Cdrom Autorun x Autorun Problem The Fn F key combination does not cause the computer to enter hibernation mode. Solution The computer cannot enter hibernation mode v If you are using one of the IBM communication PC Cards. To enter hibernation mode stop the communication program and then remove the PC Card or disable the PC Card slot using the Control Panel. v If the hibernation utility is not installed in Windows or Windows NT. To install the hibernation utility refer to Installing device drivers in the Access IBM your on board help system. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Note Some models support Windows XP only. v If the hibernation mode is not enabled. To enable it do as follows For Windows. Start the ThinkPad Configuration Program Click Power Management Click the Hibernation tab Click the Enable hibernation button Click the Create Now button. For Windows NT Note You must format your hard disk with the FAT format system to use hibernation mode in Windows NT. If you format your hard disk with NTFS the default format in Windows NT you cannot use hibernation mode Start the ThinkPad Configuration Program Click Power Management Click Suspend Resume Options Click Enable Hibernation Click OK. For Windows XP or Windows. Start the ThinkPad Configuration Program Click Power Management Click the Hibernate tab Select the hibernate support checkbox Click OK. Note You can enter hibernation mode by pressing Fn F only if the PM driver for Windows or Windows XP has been installed. Problem Under Windows XP the Fn F key combination does not make the computer screen go blank. Solution Windows XP enables multiple users to log on to the system at the same time. If you are the first user to have logged on to your computer you can use the Fn F key combination. Otherwise the combination will not work on your computer. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Computer screen problems Problem The screen is blank. Solution v If the standby status indicator is on in green press Fn to resume from the standby mode. v If you are using the ac adapter or using the battery and the battery status indicator is on in green press Fn Home to make the screen brighter. v If you attach an external monitor to your computer press Fn F to switch the screen output location. v If the problem persists do the Solution in the problem below. Problem The screen is unreadable or distorted. Solution Make sure that v The display device driver is installed correctly. v The display resolution and color depth are correctly set. v The monitor type is correct. To check these settings do as follows For Windows and Windows. Double click Display in the Control Panel. The Display Properties window opens Click the Settings tab Check if the color depth and resolution are correctly set Click Advanced Click the Adapter tab Make sure ATI Mobility RADEON or ATI Mobility RADEON is shown in the adapter information window Click the Monitor tab Make sure the Monitor type is correct. For Windows XP. Click Start Click Control Panel Click Appearance and Themes in the Pick a category section Click Display in the Pick a Control Panel icon section Click the Settings tab Check whether the color depth and resolution are correctly set. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems. Click Advanced Click the Adapter tab Make sure ATI Mobility RADEON ATI Mobility RADEON or ATI RADEON IGP M is shown in the adapter information window Click the Monitor tab Make sure the Monitor type is correct. Note Some models support Windows XP only. For Windows NT. Double click Display in the Control Panel. The Display Properties window opens Click the Settings tab Check if the color depth and resolution are correctly set Click Display Type Make sure ATI Mobility RADEON or ATI Mobility RADEON is shown in the Display Type window. Problem Incorrect characters appear on the screen. Solution Did you install the operating system or application program correctly? If they are installed and configured correctly have the computer serviced. Problem The screen stays on even after you turn off your computer. Solution Press and hold the power switch for seconds or more to turn off your computer then turn it on again. Problem Missing discolored or bright dots appear on the screen every time you turn on your computer. Solution This is an intrinsic characteristic of the TFT technology. Your computer s display contains multiple thin film transistors TFTs. A small number of missing discolored or bright dots on the screen might exist all the time. Problem A message Unable to create overlay window appears when you try to start DVD playback. or You get poor or no playback while running video playback DVD playback or game applications. Solution Do either of the following Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems v If you are using bit color mode change the color depth to bit mode. v If you are using a desktop size of or larger reduce the desktop size and the color depth. Battery problems Problem The battery cannot be fully charged by the power off method in the standard charge time for your computer. Solution The battery might be over discharged. Do the following. Turn off the computer Make sure that the over discharged battery is in the computer Connect the ac adapter to the computer and let it charge. If the battery cannot be fully charged in hours use a new battery. If the optional Quick Charger is available use it to charge the over discharged battery. Problem Your computer shuts down before the battery status indicator shows empty or Your computer operates after the battery status indicator shows empty. Solution Discharge and recharge the battery. Problem The operating time for a fully charged battery is short. Solution Discharge and recharge the battery. If your battery s operating time is still short use a new battery. Problem The computer does not operate with a fully charged battery. Solution The surge protector in the battery might be active. Turn off the computer for one minute to reset the protector then turn on the computer again. Problem The battery does not charge. Solution You cannot charge the battery when it is too hot. If the battery feels hot remove it from the computer and allow it to cool to room temperature. After it cools reinstall it and recharge the battery. If it still cannot be charged have it serviced. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Hard disk drive problems Problem The hard disk drive makes a rattling noise intermittently. Solution The rattling noise might be heard when v The hard disk drive starts accessing the data or when it stops. v You are carrying the hard disk drive. v You are carrying your computer. This is a normal characteristic of a hard disk drive and is not a defect. Problem The hard disk drive does not work. Solution In the startup menu in IBM BIOS Setup Utility make sure that there is no exclamation point ! to the left of the hard disk drive or its child node. If there is such a mark the hard disk drive is disabled. Clear the mark to enable the drive by pressing the Insert key. Startup problems Problem The Microsoft Windows operating system will not start. Solution Use the Access IBM Predesktop Area to help solve or identify your problem. Starting the Access IBM Predesktop is easy. If the Windows operating system does not start correctly the Access IBM Predesktop Area will start automatically. If for some reason the Access IBM Predesktop Area does not open automatically do the following. Turn off your PC and then turn it back on again Watch the screen carefully while your PC starts. When the following prompt is displayed press the blue Access IBM button to open the Access IBM Predesktop Area To interrupt normal startup press the blue Access IBM button. The Access IBM Predesktop Area opens to the Utilities page. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems A window such as this will appear. After the Access IBM Predesktop Area opens to the Utilities page you can select from the following icons v Start setup utility opens the IBM BIOS Setup Utiltiy program. v Recover to factory contents erases all files on primary partition the C drive and installs the software contents present when your PC was manufactured. Call the IBM HelpCenter for help and information before using this recovery method. See the telephone numbers in this publication under Calling IBM on page v Restore your backups restores backups you have made with IBM Rapid Restore PC if backups have been made. v Run diagnostics starts diagnostics tests to help determine whether there are problems with your PC and what might be causing them. v Create diagnostic disks helps you create special disks used during diagnostic tests. In the left panel of the Access IBM Predesktop Area you can click the following to open other pages or exit the utility Startup enables you to change the order of devices in which the PC searches for the operating system during startup. In some situations you might need ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems to start the operating system from a CD drive rather than the hard disk. You specify those kinds of changes on this page. Preferences presents various options depending on your model and accessories you can set for the Access IBM Predesktop Area. Information gathers essential information about your PC that you can provide to call center technicians if necessary. Help provides information about the various pages in Access IBM Predesktop area. Exit closes the Access IBM Predesktop Area and resumes the startup sequence that was interrupted. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Other problems Problem The computer locks or does not accept any input. Solution Your computer might lock when it enters standby mode during a communication operation. Disable the standby timer when you are working on the network. To turn off the computer press and hold the power switch for seconds or more. Problem The computer does not turn off with the power switch. Solution If the standby indicator is on and you are working under battery power change your power source to ac power and push Fn key to resume normal operation then shut down the computer. If you still have a problem press and hold the power switch for seconds or more this forces the computer to turn off. Problem The computer does not start from a device you want such as a diskette drive. Solution Refer to the Startup menu of the IBM BIOS Setup Utility. Make sure that the startup sequence in the IBM BIOS Setup Utility is set so that the computer starts from the device you want. Also make sure that the device from which the computer starts is enabled by checking that there is no ! mark preceding the device name. If there is such a mark clear the mark to enable the device by pressing the Insert key. Problem The computer does not respond. Solution IRQs for the PCI are all set as. The computer does not respond because it cannot share the IRQ with other devices. Refer to the IBM BIOS Setup Utility. Problem Playback of DVD is not smooth in Windows. Solution If you select the Maximum Battery mode for the Intel SpeedStep technology this problem may occur. This mode is designed to achieve maximum battery life by switching the processor speed between the regular low speed and half of that speed depending on how much the processor is used. If the use increases Intel SpeedStep switches the processor speed to the lower speed. Operation in this mode can severely degrade the performance of the processor and thus cause the playback of a DVD to be jerky. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems To avoid or reduce this problem you can choose the following mode of operation as follows v Maximum Performance Keeps the processor speed high at all times. To choose a mode do the following. Start the ThinkPad Configuration Program Click Power Management Click the Intel SpeedStep technology tab From the list select the mode you want Click OK. Problem The computer cannot play a CD or the sound quality of a CD is not good. Solution Be sure that the disk meets the standards for your country. Usually a disk that meets the local standards is marked with a CD logo on the label. If you use a disc that does not meet these standards we cannot guarantee that it will play or that if it does play the sound quality will be good. Problem You may receive Unsafe Removal of Device message that mentions the USB.x device when you resume from suspend or hibernation on Windows. Solution You can safely close this box. It is a USB. driver issue on Windows. Microsoft Knowledge Base number Q and Q under the More Information section explain this in more detail. Visit the Microsoft Knowledge Base Homepage at http support.microsoft.com type the number of knowledge base number in the search field and click the search button. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Starting IBM BIOS Setup Utility Your computer provides a program called IBM BIOS Setup Utility that enables you to select various setup parameters. v Config Set the configuration of your computer. v Date Time Set the date and time. v Security Set security features. v Startup Set the startup device. v Restart Restart the system. Note You can set many of these parameters more easily by using the ThinkPad Configuration Program. For more information on this Program refer to the on board help. To start IBM BIOS Setup Utility do as follows. To protect yourself against accidental loss of data refer to Backing up your system registry and configuration in Access IBM. Open Access IBM by pressing the Access IBM button. Backing up your registry saves your computer s current configuration Remove any diskette from the diskette drive and then turn off the computer Turn on the computer then while the To interrupt normal startup press the blue Access IBM button message is displayed at the lower left of the screen press the Access IBM button. The Access IBM Predesktop Area appears on the screen. If you have deleted the service partition of the hard disk drive or replaced the hard disk drive itself the Access IBM does not appears. Refer to the Note below. Next double click the Start setup utility icon. If you have set a supervisor password the IBM BIOS Setup Utility menu appears after you enter the password. You can start the utility by pressing Enter instead of entering the supervisor password however you cannot change the parameters that are protected by the supervisor password. For more information refer to the on board help. Note If the Startup Interrupt Menu appears instead of the Access IBM Predesktop Area press F key to enter the IBM BIOS Setup Utility Using the cursor keys move to an item you want to change. When the item you want is highlighted press Enter. A submenu is displayed Change the items you wish to change. To change the value of an item use the F or F key. If the item has a submenu you can display it by pressing Enter Press F or Esc to exit from the submenu. If you are in a nested submenu press Esc repeatedly until you reach the IBM BIOS Setup Utility menu. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Note If you need to restore the settings to their original state as of the time of purchase press the F key to load the default settings. You can also select an option in the Restart submenu to load the default settings or discard the changes Select Restart then press Enter. Move the cursor to the option you want for restarting your computer then press Enter. Your computer restarts. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSolving computer problems Recovering pre installed software If your hard disk drive data is damaged or accidentally erased you can restore the software that was shipped with your computer. This software includes your pre installed operating system applications and device drivers. You can restore your pre installed software using the Product Recovery program. The Product Recovery program is in a section of your hard disk drive that is not displayed by Windows Explorer. Note The recovery process might take up to hours. Attention All of the files on the primary hard disk partition usually drive C will be lost in the recovery process. Be sure to back up copies of the files you have saved on your drive C before you begin. Note You might need to use a diskette drive in the recovery process. Use a drive that is compatible with your computer. To use the Product Recovery program to restore your pre installed software do the following. Create a Recovery Repair diskette according to the procedure below If possible save all your files to media other than your hard disk Turn off your computer Turn on your computer. At the prompt press the Access IBM button. The prompt To interrupt normal startup press the blue Access IBM button appears for only a few seconds. You must press the Access IBM button quickly. The Access IBM Predesktop Area appears on the screen. Next double click the Recover to factory contents icon. The Product Recovery program main menu opens Select the recovery options you want and then follow the instructions on the screen When the Product Recovery program finishes your computer will restart and begin the configuration process. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineUpgrading the hard disk drive Upgrading the hard disk drive You can increase the storage capacity of your computer by replacing the hard disk drive with one of greater capacity. You can purchase a new hard disk drive from your IBM reseller or IBM marketing representative. Note Replace the hard disk drive only if you upgrade it or have it repaired. The connectors and bay of the hard disk drive were not designed for frequent changes or drive swapping. The Access ThinkPad Predesktop Area and the Product Recovery program is not contained in the optional hard disk drive. Attention Handling a hard disk drive v Do not drop the drive or subject it to physical shocks. Put the drive on a material such as soft cloth that absorbs the physical shock. v Do not apply pressure to the cover of the drive. v Do not touch the connector. The drive is very sensitive. Incorrect handling can cause damage and permanent loss of data on the hard disk. Before removing the hard disk drive make a backup copy of all the information on the hard disk and then turn the computer off. Never remove the drive while the system is operating in standby mode or in hibernation mode. To replace the hard disk drive do the following. Turn off the computer then disconnect the ac adapter and all cables from the computer Close the computer display and turn the computer over Remove the battery Remove the screw that secures the hard disk drive. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineUpgrading the hard disk drive. Open the computer display then stand the computer on its side and remove the hard disk drive by pulling the cover away from the computer Detach the cover from the hard disk drive Attach the cover to a new hard disk drive Insert the hard disk drive and its cover into the hard disk drive bay then firmly install them Turn the computer over so that its bottom side is up. Reinstall the screw. Note You can replace the screw with a security screw to prevent the hard disk drive from being removed easily. The security screw may not be included in your ship group. You can however purchase screw directly from NABS at www.nabsnet.com. Reinstall the battery Turn the computer over again. Connect the ac adapter and the cables to the computer. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineReplacing the battery Replacing the battery. Turn off the computer or enter hibernation mode. Then disconnect the ac adapter and all cables from the computer. Note If you are using a PC Card the computer might not be able to enter hibernation mode. If this happens turn off the computer Close the computer display and turn the computer over Slide the battery latch to unlock it cid cid then remove the battery cid cid. Note The first position of the battery latch is for releasing the lock of the battery Align the side of a fully charged spare battery with the side of the battery space in the computer cid cid then gently push the battery into the space cid cid Slide the battery latch to lock it Turn the computer over again. Connect the ac adapter and the cables to the computer. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineInstall a memory module Install a memory module To install the DIMM do the following. Turn off the computer then disconnect the ac adapter and all cables from the computer Close the computer display and turn it over Remove the battery Loosen the screw on the memory slot cover then remove the cover. If the SO DIMM is already in the memory slot remove it to make room for the new one by pressing out on the latches on both edges of the socket at the same time. Be sure to save it for future use Find the notch on the side of the SO DIMM. Attention To avoid damaging the SO DIMM do not touch its contact edge With the notched end of the SO DIMM toward the right side of the socket insert the SO DIMM into the socket at an angle of about degrees cid cid then press it firmly cid cid. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineInstall a memory module. Pivot the SO DIMM until it snaps into place. Make sure that the card is firmly fixed in the slot and does not move easily Replace the memory slot cover over the memory slot aligning the back side of the cover first then tighten the screw. Attention When you have added or upgraded a memory card do not use your computer until you have closed the memory slot cover. Never use the computer with the cover open Put the battery pack in place and turn the computer over again. To make sure that the SO DIMM is installed correctly do as follows. Turn the computer on While the To interrupt normal startup press the blue Access IBM button message is displayed at the lower left area of the screen press the Access IBM button The Access IBM Predesktop Area appears on the screen. If you have deleted the service partition of the hard disk drive or replaced the hard disk drive itself the Access IBM does not appear. Refer to the Note below. Next double click the Start setup utility icon. The IBM BIOS Setup Utility screen appears. The Installed memory item shows the total amount of memory installed in your computer. For example if you install a MB SO DIMM into a computer whose built in memory is MB the quantity shown in Installed memory should be MB. Note If the Startup Interrupt Menu appears instead of the Access IBM Predesktop Area press F key to enter the IBM BIOS Setup Utility. Some models use MB in a main memory as video memory. So Installed memory shows MB less. Chapter. Solving computer problems Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineInstall a memory module ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineChapter. Getting help and service from IBM Getting help and service Calling IBM Getting help on the Web Getting help around the world Getting help by fax Copyright IBM Corp. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineGetting help and service Getting help and service If you need help service technical assistance or just want more information about IBM products you will find a wide variety of sources available from IBM to assist you. This section contains information about where to go for additional information about IBM and IBM products what to do if you experience a problem with your computer and whom to call for service should it be necessary. Information about your IBM computer and preinstalled software if any is available in the documentation that comes with your computer. That documentation includes printed books online books README files and help files. In addition information about IBM products is available on the World Wide Web and through the IBM Automated Fax System. For technical assistance with the installation of or questions related to Service Packs for your preinstalled Microsoft Windows product refer to the Microsoft Product Support Services Web site at support.microsoft.com directory or you can contact the IBM HelpCenter. Some fees might apply. Getting help on the Web On the World Wide Web the IBM Web site has up to date information about IBM Personal Computer products and support. The address for the IBM Personal Computing home page is www.ibm.com pc IBM provides an extensive Web site dedicated to mobile computing and to ThinkPad computers at www.ibm.com pc support Research this Web site to learn how to solve problems find new ways to use your computer and learn about options that can make working with your ThinkPad computer even easier. If you select Profile from the support page you can create a customized support page that is specific to your hardware complete with Frequently Asked Questions Parts Information Technical Hints and Tips and Downloadable Files. In addition you can choose to receive e mail notifications whenever new information becomes available about your registered products. You also can order publications through the IBM Publications Ordering System at www.elink.ibmlink.ibm.com public applications publications cgibin pbi.cgi ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineGetting help and service Getting help by fax If you have a touch tone telephone and access to a fax machine in the U.S. and Canada you can receive by fax marketing and technical information on many topics including hardware operating systems and local area networks LANs. You can call the IBM Automated Fax System hours a day days a week. Follow the recorded instructions and the requested information will be sent to your fax machine. In the U.S. and Canada to access the IBM Automated Fax System call. Calling IBM If you have tried to correct the problem yourself and still need help during the warranty period you can get help and information by telephone through the IBM PC HelpCenter. The following services are available during the warranty period v Problem determination Trained personnel are available to assist you with determining if you have a hardware problem and deciding what action is necessary to fix the problem. v IBM hardware repair If the problem is determined to be caused by IBM hardware under warranty trained service personnel are available to provide the applicable level of service. v Engineering change management Occasionally there might be changes that are required after a product has been sold. IBM or your reseller if authorized by IBM will make selected Engineering Changes ECs available that apply to your hardware. The following items are not covered v Replacement or use of non IBM parts or nonwarranted IBM parts Note All warranted parts contain a character identification in the format IBM FRU XXXXXXX v Identification of software problem sources v Configuration of BIOS as part of an installation or upgrade v Changes modifications or upgrades to device drivers v Installation and maintenance of network operating systems NOS v Installation and maintenance of application programs Refer to your IBM hardware warranty for a full explanation of IBM warranty terms. Be sure to retain your proof of purchase to obtain warranty service. Chapter. Getting help and service from IBM Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineGetting help and service If possible be near your computer when you make your call in case the technical assistance representative needs to help you resolve a computer problem. Please ensure that you have downloaded the most current drivers and system updates run diagnostics and recorded information before you call. When calling for technical assistance please have the following information available v Machine Type and Model v Serial numbers of your computer monitor and other components or your proof of purchase v Description of the problem v Exact wording of any error messages v Hardware and software configuration information for your system Telephone numbers Note Telephone numbers are subject to change without notice. For the latest list of IBM HelpCenter telephone numbers and hours of operation visit the Support Web site at www.ibm.com pc support Country or region Language Telephone Number Argentina Spanish Australia English Austria German Bolivia Spanish Belgium Dutch French Brazil Portuguese Canada English French in Toronto only call Chile Spanish China Mandarin Colombia Spanish Denmark Danish Ecuador Spanish option Finland Finnish France French Germany German ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineGetting help and service Country or region Language Telephone Number Hong Kong Cantonese Ireland English Italy Italian Japan Japanese Luxembourg French Mexico Spanish Netherlands Dutch New Zealand English Norway Norwegian Peru Spanish Portugal Portuguese Russia Russian Spain Spanish Sweden Swedish Switzerland German French Italian Taiwan Mandarin United English Kingdom United States English Uruguay Spanish Venezuela Spanish If you purchased your ThinkPad computer in Japan the telephone number of the IBM Help Center is given to you as soon as you finish registering the computer. For detailed information visit the Web site at www.ibm.com jp pc ibmjreg Getting help around the world If you travel with your computer or relocate it to a country where your ThinkPad machine type is sold and serviced by IBM or by IBM autorized servicers who are authorized to perform warranty service International Warranty Service is available for your computer. Chapter. Getting help and service from IBM Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineGetting help and service Service methods and procedures vary by country and some services might not be available in all countries. International Warranty Service is delivered through the method of service such as depot carry in or on site service that is provided in the servicing country. Service centers in certain countries might not be able to service all models of a particular machine type. In some countries fees and restrictions might apply at the time of service. To determine whether your computer is eligible for International Warranty Service and to view a list of the countries where service is available go to http www.ibm.com pc support and click Warranty Lookup. Eligible IBM computers are identified by their four digit machine types. For more information about International Warranty Service see Service Announcement at http www.ibm.com. Click Support downloads click Announcement letters and click Announcements search. In the Search by letter number only field type and click Search. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. Copyright IBM Corp. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine cid cid cid cid cid v cid cid cid cid. v cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid v cid cid cid cid cid cid IBM cid. v cid cid cid. v cid cid cid. v cid cid. v cid. v cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid C F cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. ThinkPad R SeriesServiceandTroubleshootingGuide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine cid cid cid MiniPCI cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid MiniPCI cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. Z cid cid Mini PCI cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid LCD. cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid. AWG cid cid cid. cid cid cid modem cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. ThinkPad R SeriesServiceandTroubleshootingGuide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid laser cid cid cid cid CD ROM CD RW DVD ROM cid SuperDisk cid cid cid cid IBM ThinkPad cid laser. cid cid cid laser cid cid cid cid. CLASS LASER PRODUCT LASER KLASSE LUOKAN LASERLAITE APPAREIL A LASER DE CLASSE KLASS LASER APPARAT cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid DHHS CFR cid cid J laser cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid IEC EN laser cid. cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. laser cid cid. cid laser cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine cid laser cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid cid laser cid A. cid cid cid cid laser cid cid cid. cid cid cid cid. cid cid cid. cid cid cid. ThinkPad R SeriesServiceandTroubleshootingGuide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAppendix B. Wireless related information Wireless Interoperability Wireless LAN Mini PCI Adapter is designed to be interoperable with any wireless LAN product that is based on Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum DSSS radio technology and is compliant to v The IEEE. b Standard on Wireless LANs as defined and approved by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. Note The IEEE. a is also supported by. a b combo card. v The Wireless Fidelity WiFi certification as defined by the WECA Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance. IBM Integrated Bluetooth with K Modem is designed to be interoperable with any Bluetooth product that is compliant to Bluetooth Specification. as defined by the Bluetooth SIG. Following profiles are supported by IBM Bluetooth Daughter Card with IBM Integrated Bluetooth II Software v Generic Access v Service Discovery v Serial Port v Dial up Networking v FAX v LAN Access Using PPP v Personal Area Network v Generic Object Exchange v Generic Object Push v File Transfer v Synchronization v Audio Gateway v Headset v Printer Usage environment and your Health Wireless LAN Mini PCI Adapter and Bluetooth Daughter Card emit radio frequency electromagnetic energy like other radio devices. However the level of energy emitted is far much less than the electromagnetic energy emitted by wireless devices like for example mobile phones. Copyright IBM Corp. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineBecause Wireless LAN Mini PCI Adapter and Bluetooth Daughter Card operate within the guidelines found in radio frequency safety standards and recommendations IBM believes the integrated wireless cards are safe for use by consumers. These standards and recommendations reflect the consensus of the scientific community and result from deliberations of panels and committees of scientists who continually review and interpret the extensive research literature. In some situation or environment the use of Wireless LAN Mini PCI Adapter or Bluetooth Daughter Card may be restricted by the proprietor of the building or responsible representatives of the organization. These situations may for example include v Using the integrated wireless cards on board of airplanes or in hospitals v In any other environment where the risk of interference to other devices or services is perceived or identified as harmful. If you are uncertain of the policy that applies on the use of wireless devices in a specific organization e.g. airport or hospital you are encouraged to ask for authorization to use Wireless LAN Mini PCI Adapter or Bluetooth Daughter Card prior to turning on the ThinkPad R computer. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAppendix C. Warranty information This appendix contains warranty information for your ThinkPad warranty period warranty service and support and the IBM Statement of Limited Warranty. Warranty Period Contact your place of purchase for warranty service information. Some IBM Machines are eligible for on site warranty service depending on the country or region where service is performed or the machine type. Machine type and Country or region Warranty period All Parts year labor year Battery pack year Machine type and Country or region Warranty period All Parts years labor years Battery pack year Machine type Country or region Warranty period All Parts days labor days Battery pack days Machine type Country or region Warranty period All Parts year labor year Battery pack year Copyright IBM Corp. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineMachine type and Country or region Warranty period All Parts years labor years Battery pack year Warranty service and support With the original purchase of an IBM ThinkPad you have access to extensive support. During the IBM Machine warranty period you may call IBM or your reseller for problem determination assistance under the terms of the IBM Statement of Limited Warranty. The following services are available during the warranty period v Problem determination Trained personnel are available to assist you with determining if you have a hardware problem and deciding what action is necessary to fix the problem. v IBM hardware repair If the problem is determined to be caused by IBM hardware under warranty trained service personnel are available to provide the applicable level of service either on site or at an IBM service center as determined by IBM. v Engineering Change management Occasionally there might be changes that are required after a product has been shipped from IBM. In those instances IBM will make Engineering Changes ECs available that apply to your hardware. The following items are not covered under warranty service v Replacement or use of non IBM parts. All IBM parts contain a character identification in the format IBM FRU XXXXXXX. v Identification of non IBM software problem sources. v Installation of customer replaceable units CRUs. v Installation and configuration of machine code or licensed internal code that is designated as customer installable. If you do not register your computer with IBM you might be required to present proof of purchase to obtain warranty service. Before you call for service You can solve many problems without outside assistance by following the troubleshooting procedures that IBM provides in the online help or in the publications that are provided with your computer and software. Most computers operating systems and application programs come with information that contains troubleshooting procedures and explanations of ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineerror messages and error codes. The information that comes with your computer also describes the diagnostic tests that you can perform. If you suspect a software problem refer to the information for the operating system or application program. Calling for service Please have the following information ready v Machine type model and serial number v Description of the problem v Exact wording of any error messages v Hardware and software configuration information To find the telephone number for the HelpCenter nearest you see Telephone numbers in Chapter Getting help and service from IBM on page IBM Statement of Limited Warranty Z This warranty statement consists of two parts Part and Part. Be sure to read Part and the country unique terms in Part that apply to your country or region. Part General Terms This Statement of Limited Warranty includes Part General Terms and Part Country unique Terms. The terms of Part replace or modify those of Part. The warranties provided by IBM in this Statement of Limited Warranty apply only to Machines you purchase for your use and not for resale from IBM or your reseller. The term Machine means an IBM machine its features conversions upgrades elements or accessories or any combination of them. The term Machine does not include any software programs whether pre loaded with the Machine installed subsequently or otherwise. Unless IBM specifies otherwise the following warranties apply only in the country where you acquire the Machine. Nothing in this Statement of Limited Warranty affects any statutory rights of consumers that cannot be waived or limited by contract. If you have any questions contact IBM or your reseller. The IBM Warranty for Machines IBM warrants that each Machine is free from defects in materials and workmanship and conforms to IBM s Official Published Specifications Specifications. The warranty period for a Machine is a specified fixed period commencing on its Date of Installation. The date on your sales receipt is the Date of Installation unless IBM or your reseller informs you otherwise. If a Machine does not function as warranted during the warranty period and IBM or your reseller are unable to either make it do so or replace it with AppendixC. Warranty information Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineone that is at least functionally equivalent you may return it to your place of purchase and your money will be refunded. Extent of Warranty The warranty does not cover the repair or exchange of a Machine resulting from misuse accident modification unsuitable physical or operating environment improper maintenance by you or failure caused by a product for which IBM is not responsible. The warranty is voided by removal or alteration of Machine or parts identification labels. THESE WARRANTIES ARE YOUR EXCLUSIVE WARRANTIES AND REPLACE ALL OTHER WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THESE WARRANTIES GIVE YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS AND YOU MAY ALSO HAVE OTHER RIGHTS WHICH VARY FROM JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. IN THAT EVENT SUCH WARRANTIES ARE LIMITED IN DURATION TO THE WARRANTY PERIOD. NO WARRANTIES APPLY AFTER THAT PERIOD. Items Not Covered by Warranty IBM does not warrant uninterrupted or error free operation of a Machine. Any technical or other support provided for a Machine under warranty such as assistance via telephone with how to questions and those regarding Machine set up and installation will be provided WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. Warranty Service To obtain warranty service for a Machine contact IBM or your reseller. If you do not register your Machine with IBM you may be required to present proof of purchase. During the warranty period IBM or your reseller if approved by IBM to provide warranty service provides without charge certain types of repair and exchange service to keep Machines in or restore them to conformance with their Specifications. IBM or your reseller will inform you of the available types of service for a Machine based on its country of installation. At its discretion IBM or your reseller will either repair or exchange the failing Machine and provide the service either at your location or a service center. IBM or your reseller will also manage and install selected engineering changes that apply to the Machine. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSome parts of IBM Machines are designated as Customer Replaceable Units called CRUs e.g. keyboards memory or hard disk drives. IBM ships CRUs to you for replacement by you. You must return all defective CRUs to IBM within days of your receipt of the replacement CRU. You are responsible for downloading designated Machine Code and Licensed Internal Code updates from an IBM Internet Web site or from other electronic media and following the instructions that IBM provides. When warranty service involves the exchange of a Machine or part the item IBM or your reseller replaces becomes its property and the replacement becomes yours. You represent that all removed items are genuine and unaltered. The replacement may not be new but will be in good working order and at least functionally equivalent to the item replaced. The replacement assumes the warranty service status of the replaced item. Many features conversions or upgrades involve the removal of parts and their return to IBM. A part that replaces a removed part will assume the warranty service status of the removed part. Before IBM or your reseller exchanges a Machine or part you agree to remove all features parts options alterations and attachments not under warranty service. You also agree to. ensure that the Machine is free of any legal obligations or restrictions that prevent its exchange. obtain authorization from the owner to have IBM or your reseller service a Machine that you do not own and. where applicable before service is provided a. follow the problem determination problem analysis and service request procedures that IBM or your reseller provides b. secure all programs data and funds contained in a Machine c. provide IBM or your reseller with sufficient free and safe access to your facilities to permit them to fulfill their obligations and d. inform IBM or your reseller of changes in a Machine s location. IBM is responsible for loss of or damage to your Machine while it is in IBM s possession or in transit in those cases where IBM is responsible for the transportation charges. Neither IBM nor your reseller is responsible for any of your confidential proprietary or personal information contained in a Machine which you return to IBM or your reseller for any reason. You should remove all such information from the Machine prior to its return. AppendixC. Warranty information Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineLimitation of Liability Circumstances may arise where because of a default on IBM s part or other liability you are entitled to recover damages from IBM. In each such instance regardless of the basis on which you are entitled to claim damages from IBM including fundamental breach negligence misrepresentation or other contract or tort claim except for any liability that cannot be waived or limited by applicable laws IBM is liable for no more than. damages for bodily injury including death and damage to real property and tangible personal property and. the amount of any other actual direct damages up to the charges if recurring months charges apply for the Machine that is subject of the claim. For purposes of this item the term Machine includes Machine Code and Licensed Internal Code. This limit also applies to IBM s suppliers and your reseller. It is the maximum for which IBM its suppliers and your reseller are collectively responsible. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS IBM LIABLE FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING THIRD PARTY CLAIMS AGAINST YOU FOR DAMAGES OTHER THAN THOSE UNDER THE FIRST ITEM LISTED ABOVE LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO YOUR RECORDS OR DATA OR SPECIAL INCIDENTAL OR INDIRECT DAMAGES OR FOR ANY ECONOMIC CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES LOST PROFITS OR LOST SAVINGS EVEN IF IBM ITS SUPPLIERS OR YOUR RESELLER IS INFORMED OF THEIR POSSIBILITY. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. Governing Law Both you and IBM consent to the application of the laws of the country in which you acquired the Machine to govern interpret and enforce all of your and IBM s rights duties and obligations arising from or relating in any manner to the subject matter of this Agreement without regard to conflict of law principles. Part Country unique Terms AMERICAS BRAZIL Governing Law The following is added after the first sentence Any litigation arising from this Agreement will be settled exclusively by the court of Rio de Janeiro. NORTH AMERICA ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineWarranty Service The following is added to this Section To obtain warranty service from IBM in Canada or the United States call IBM SERV. CANADA Governing Law The following replaces laws of the country in which you acquired the Machine in the first sentence laws in the Province of Ontario. UNITED STATES Governing Law The following replaces laws of the country in which you acquired the Machine in the first sentence laws of the State of New York. ASIA PACIFIC AUSTRALIA The IBM Warranty for Machines The following paragraph is added to this Section The warranties specified in this Section are in addition to any rights you may have under the Trade Practices Act or other similar legislation and are only limited to the extent permitted by the applicable legislation. Limitation of Liability The following is added to this Section Where IBM is in breach of a condition or warranty implied by the Trade Practices Act or other similar legislation IBM s liability is limited to the repair or replacement of the goods or the supply of equivalent goods. Where that condition or warranty relates to right to sell quiet possession or clear title or the goods are of a kind ordinarily acquired for personal domestic or household use or consumption then none of the limitations in this paragraph apply. Governing Law The following replaces laws of the country in which you acquired the Machine in the first sentence laws of the State or Territory. CAMBODIA LAOS AND VIETNAM Governing Law The following replaces laws of the country in which you acquired the Machine in the first sentence laws of the State of New York. AppendixC. Warranty information Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineThe following is added to this Section Disputes and differences arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be finally settled by arbitration which shall be held in Singapore in accordance with the rules of the International Chamber of Commerce ICC. The arbitrator or arbitrators designated in conformity with those rules shall have the power to rule on their own competence and on the validity of the Agreement to submit to arbitration. The arbitration award shall be final and binding for the parties without appeal and the arbitral award shall be in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusions of law. All proceedings shall be conducted including all documents presented in such proceedings in the English language. The number of arbitrators shall be three with each side to the dispute being entitled to appoint one arbitrator. The two arbitrators appointed by the parties shall appoint a third arbitrator before proceeding upon the reference. The third arbitrator shall act as chairman of the proceedings. Vacancies in the post of chairman shall be filled by the president of the ICC. Other vacancies shall be filled by the respective nominating party. Proceedings shall continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred. If one of the parties refuses or otherwise fails to appoint an arbitrator within days of the date the other party appoints its the first appointed arbitrator shall be the sole arbitrator provided that the arbitrator was validly and properly appointed. The English language version of this Agreement prevails over any other language version. HONG KONG AND MACAU Governing Law The following replaces laws of the country in which you acquired the Machine in the first sentence laws of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. INDIA Limitation of Liability The following replaces items and of this Section. liability for bodily injury including death or damage to real property and tangible personal property will be limited to that caused by IBM s negligence. as to any other actual damage arising in any situation involving nonperformance by IBM pursuant to or in any way related to the subject ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineof this Statement of Limited Warranty IBM s liability will be limited to the charge paid by you for the individual Machine that is the subject of the claim. JAPAN Governing Law The following sentence is added to this Section Any doubts concerning this Agreement will be initially resolved between us in good faith and in accordance with the principle of mutual trust. NEW ZEALAND The IBM Warranty for Machines The following paragraph is added to this Section The warranties specified in this Section are in addition to any rights you may have under the Consumer Guarantees Act or other legislation which cannot be excluded or limited. The Consumer Guarantees Act will not apply in respect of any goods which IBM provides if you require the goods for the purposes of a business as defined in that Act. Limitation of Liability The following is added to this Section Where Machines are not acquired for the purposes of a business as defined in the Consumer Guarantees Act the limitations in this Section are subject to the limitations in that Act. PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA PRC Governing Law The following replaces this Section Both you and IBM consent to the application of the laws of the State of New York except when local law requires otherwise to govern interpret and enforce all your and IBM s rights duties and obligations arising from or relating in any manner to the subject matter of this Agreement without regard to conflict of law principles. Any disputes arising from or in connection with this Agreement will first be resolved by friendly negotiations failing which either of us has the right to submit the dispute to the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission in Beijing the PRC for arbitration in accordance with its arbitration rules in force at the time. The arbitration tribunal will consist of three arbitrators. The language to be used therein will be English and Chinese. An arbitral award will be final and binding on all the parties and will be enforceable under the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards. The arbitration fee will be borne by the losing party unless otherwise determined by the arbitral award. AppendixC. Warranty information Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineDuring the course of arbitration this Agreement will continue to be performed except for the part which the parties are disputing and which is undergoing arbitration. EUROPE MIDDLE EAST AFRICA EMEA THE FOLLOWING TERMS APPLY TO ALL EMEA COUNTRIES The terms of this Statement of Limited Warranty apply to Machines purchased from IBM or an IBM reseller. Warranty Service If you purchase an IBM Machine in Austria Belgium Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Iceland Ireland Italy Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Netherlands Norway Portugal Spain Sweden Switzerland or United Kingdom you may obtain warranty service for that Machine in any of those countries from either an IBM reseller approved to perform warranty service or from IBM. If you purchase an IBM Personal Computer Machine in Albania Armenia Belarus Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Czech Republic Georgia Hungary Kazakhstan Kirghizia Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia FYROM Moldova Poland Romania Russia Slovak Republic Slovenia or Ukraine you may obtain warranty service for that Machine in any of those countries from either an IBM reseller approved to perform warranty service or from IBM. If you purchase an IBM Machine in a Middle Eastern or African country you may obtain warranty service for that Machine from the IBM entity within the country of purchase if that IBM entity provides warranty service in that country or from an IBM reseller approved by IBM to perform warranty service on that Machine in that country. Warranty service in Africa is available within kilometers of an IBM authorized service provider. You are responsible for transportation costs for Machines located outside kilometers of an IBM authorized service provider. Governing Law The applicable laws that govern interpret and enforce rights duties and obligations of each of us arising from or relating in any manner to the subject matter of this Statement without regard to conflict of laws principles as well as Country unique terms and competent court for this Statement are those of the country in which the warranty service is being provided except that in Albania Bosnia Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Hungary Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Romania Slovakia Slovenia Armenia Azerbaijan Belarus Georgia Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan Moldova Russia Tajikistan Turkmenistan Ukraine and Uzbekistan the laws of Austria apply Estonia Latvia and Lithuania the laws of Finland apply Algeria Benin Burkina Faso Cameroon Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Congo Djibouti Democratic Republic of Congo Equatorial Guinea France Gabon ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineGambia Guinea Guinea Bissau Ivory Coast Lebanon Mali Mauritania Morocco Niger Senegal Togo and Tunisia this Agreement will be construed and the legal relations between the parties will be determined in accordance with the French laws and all disputes arising out of this Agreement or related to its violation or execution including summary proceedings will be settled exclusively by the Commercial Court of Paris Angola Bahrain Botswana Burundi Egypt Eritrea Ethiopia Ghana Jordan Kenya Kuwait Liberia Malawi Malta Mozambique Nigeria Oman Pakistan Qatar Rwanda Sao Tome Saudi Arabia Sierra Leone Somalia Tanzania Uganda United Arab Emirates United Kingdom West Bank Gaza Yemen Zambia and Zimbabwe this Agreement will be governed by English Law and disputes relating to it will be submitted to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts and in Greece Israel Italy Portugal and Spain any legal claim arising out of this Statement will be brought before and finally settled by the competent court of Athens Tel Aviv Milan Lisbon and Madrid respectively. THE FOLLOWING TERMS APPLY TO THE COUNTRY SPECIFIED AUSTRIA AND GERMANY The IBM Warranty for Machines The following replaces the first sentence of the first paragraph of this Section The warranty for an IBM Machine covers the functionality of the Machine for its normal use and the Machine s conformity to its Specifications. The following paragraphs are added to this Section The minimum warranty period for Machines is six months. In case IBM or your reseller is unable to repair an IBM Machine you can alternatively ask for a partial refund as far as justified by the reduced value of the unrepaired Machine or ask for a cancellation of the respective agreement for such Machine and get your money refunded. Extent of Warranty The second paragraph does not apply. Warranty Service The following is added to this Section During the warranty period transportation for delivery of the failing Machine to IBM will be at IBM s expense. Limitation of Liability The following paragraph is added to this Section The limitations and exclusions specified in the Statement of Limited Warranty will not apply to damages caused by IBM with fraud or gross negligence and for express warranty. AppendixC. Warranty information Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineThe following sentence is added to the end of item IBM s liability under this item is limited to the violation of essential contractual terms in cases of ordinary negligence. EGYPT Limitation of Liability The following replaces item in this Section as to any other actual direct damages IBM s liability will be limited to the total amount you paid for the Machine that is the subject of the claim. For purposes of this item the term Machine includes Machine Code and Licensed Internal Code. Applicability of suppliers and resellers unchanged. FRANCE Limitation of Liability The following replaces the second sentence of the first paragraph of this Section In such instances regardless of the basis on which you are entitled to claim damages from IBM IBM is liable for no more than items and unchanged. IRELAND Extent of Warranty The following is added to this Section Except as expressly provided in these terms and conditions all statutory conditions including all warranties implied but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing all warranties implied by the Sale of Goods Act or the Sale of Goods and Supply of Services Act are hereby excluded. Limitation of Liability The following replaces items one and two of the first paragraph of this Section. death or personal injury or physical damage to your real property solely caused by IBM s negligence and. the amount of any other actual direct damages up to percent of the charges if recurring the months charges apply for the Machine that is the subject of the claim or which otherwise gives rise to the claim. Applicability of suppliers and resellers unchanged. The following paragraph is added at the end of this Section IBM s entire liability and your sole remedy whether in contract or in tort in respect of any default shall be limited to damages. ITALY ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineLimitation of Liability The following replaces the second sentence in the first paragraph In each such instance unless otherwise provided by mandatory law IBM is liable for no more than. unchanged. as to any other actual damage arising in all situations involving nonperformance by IBM pursuant to or in any way related to the subject matter of this Statement of Warranty IBM s liability will be limited to the total amount you paid for the Machine that is the subject of the claim. Applicability of suppliers and resellers unchanged. The following replaces the third paragraph of this Section Unless otherwise provided by mandatory law IBM and your reseller are not liable for any of the following items and unchanged indirect damages even if IBM or your reseller is informed of their possibility. SOUTH AFRICA NAMIBIA BOTSWANA LESOTHO AND SWAZILAND Limitation of Liability The following is added to this Section IBM s entire liability to you for actual damages arising in all situations involving nonperformance by IBM in respect of the subject matter of this Statement of Warranty will be limited to the charge paid by you for the individual Machine that is the subject of your claim from IBM. UNITED KINGDOM Limitation of Liability The following replaces items and of the first paragraph of this Section. death or personal injury or physical damage to your real property solely caused by IBM s negligence. the amount of any other actual direct damages or loss up to percent of the charges if recurring the months charges apply for the Machine that is the subject of the claim or which otherwise gives rise to the claim The following item is added to this paragraph. breach of IBM s obligations implied by Section of the Sale of Goods Act or Section of the Supply of Goods and Services Act. Applicability of suppliers and resellers unchanged. The following is added to the end of this Section IBM s entire liability and your sole remedy whether in contract or in tort in respect of any default shall be limited to damages. AppendixC. Warranty information Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAppendix D. Notices This publication was developed for products and services offered in the U.S.A. IBM may not offer the products services or features discussed in this document in other countries. Consult your local IBM representative for information on the products and services currently available in your area. Any reference to an IBM product program or service is not intended to state or imply that only that IBM product program or service may be used. Any functionally equivalent product program or service that does not infringe any IBM intellectual property right may be used instead. However it is the user s responsibility to evaluate and verify the operation of any non IBM product program or service. IBM may have patents or pending patent applications covering subject matter described in this document. The furnishing of this document does not give you any license to these patents. You can send license inquiries in writing to IBM Director of Licensing IBM Corporation North Castle Drive Armonk NY U.S.A. Processing date data This IBM hardware product and IBM software products that might be packaged with it have been designed when used in accordance with their associated documentation to process date data correctly within and between the th and st centuries provided all other products for example software hardware and firmware used with these products properly exchange accurate date data with them. IBM cannot take responsibility for the date data processing capabilities of non IBM products even if those products are preinstalled or otherwise distributed by IBM. You should contact the vendors responsible for those products directly to determine the capabilities of their products and update them if needed. This IBM hardware product cannot prevent errors that might occur if software upgrades or peripheral devices you use or exchange data with do not process date data correctly. The foregoing is a Year Readiness Disclosure. Copyright IBM Corp. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineReferences to the Web site addresses Any references in this publication to non IBM Web sites are provided for convenience only and do not in any manner serve as an endorsement of those Web sites. The materials at those Web sites are not part of the materials for this IBM product and use of those Web sites is at your own risk. Electronic emission notices Federal Communications Commission FCC Statement ThinkPad R machine type or This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device pursuant to Part of the FCC Rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a residential installation. This equipment generates uses and can radiate radio frequency energy and if not installed and used in accordance with the instructions may cause harmful interference to radio communications. However there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to radio or television reception which can be determined by turning the equipment off and on the user is encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or more of the following measures v Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna. v Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver. v Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected. v Consult an IBM authorized dealer or service representative for help. Properly shielded and grounded cables and connectors must be used in order to meet FCC emission limits. Proper cables and connectors are available from IBM authorized dealers. IBM is not responsible for any radio or television interference caused by using other than recommended cables and connectors or by unauthorized changes or modifications to this equipment. Unauthorized changes or modifications could void the user s authority to operate the equipment. This device complies with Part of the FCC Rules. Operation is subject to the following two conditions this device may not cause harmful interference and this device must accept any interference received including interference that may cause undesired operation. Responsible Party ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineInternational Business Machines Corporation New Orchard Road Armonk NY Telephone Industry Canada Class B Emission Compliance Statement This Class B digital apparatus complies with Canadian ICES. Avis de conformit la r glementation d Industrie Canada Cet appareil num rique de la classe B est conform la norme NMB du Canada. European Community Directive Conformance Statement This product is in conformity with the protection requirements of EU Council Directive EEC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to electro magnetic compatibility. IBM cannot accept responsibility for any failure to satisfy the protection requirements resulting from a non recommended modification of the product including the fitting of non IBM option cards. This product satisfies the Class B limits of EN. Telecommunication notices Federal Communications Commission FCC and Telephone Company Requirements Part of the FCC Rules. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act of makes it unlawful for any person to use a computer or other electronic device to send any message via a telephone fax machine unless such message clearly contains in a margin at the top or bottom of each transmitted page or on the first page of the transmission the date and time it is sent and an identification of the business or other entity or other individual sending the message and the telephone number of the sending machine or such business other entity or individual. In order to program this information into your computer you should be sure to follow the installation instructions for your fax software package The built in modem is built into the ThinkPad computer. It complies with Part of the FCC Rules. A label is affixed to the bottom of the computer that contains among other things the FCC registration number USOC AppendixD. Notices Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineand Ringer Equivalency Number REN for this equipment. If these numbers are requested look at the label and provide this information to your telephone company The REN is useful to determine the quantity of devices you may connect to your telephone line and still have those devices ring when your number is called. In most but not all areas the sum of the RENs of all devices should not exceed five To be certain of the number of devices you may connect to your line as determined by the REN REN. you should call your local telephone company to determine the maximum REN for your calling area If the built in modem causes harm to the telephone network the telephone company may discontinue your service temporarily. If possible they will notify you in advance. But if advance notice isn t practical you will be notified as soon as possible. You will be advised of your right to file a complaint with the FCC Your telephone company may make changes in its facilities equipment operations or procedures that could affect the proper operation of your equipment. If they do you will be given advance notice so as to give you an opportunity to maintain uninterrupted service If you experience trouble with this built in modem contact your IBM Authorized Seller or the IBM Corporation Columbus Avenue Thornwood NY for repair warranty information. The telephone company may ask you to disconnect this equipment from the network until the problem has been corrected or until you are sure the equipment is not malfunctioning No customer repairs are possible to the modem. If you experience trouble with this equipment contact your Authorized Seller or the IBM Corporation for information The modem may not be used on coin service provided by the telephone company. Connection to party lines is subject to state tariffs. Contact your state public utility commission or corporation commission for information When ordering network interface NI service from the Local Exchange Carrier specify service arrangement USOC RJ C. Fax Branding The Telephone Consumer Protection Act of makes it unlawful for any person to use a computer or other electronic device including fax machines to send any message unless such message clearly contains in a margin at the top of or bottom of each transmitted page or on the first page of the transmission the date and time it is sent and an identification of the business or other entity or other individual sending the message and the telephone number of the sending machine or such business other entity or individual. The telephone number provided may not be a number or any other number for which charges exceed local or long distance transmission charges. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineIndustry Canada requirements Notice The Industry Canada label identifies certified equipment. This certification means that the equipment meets certain telecommunications networks protective operational and safety requirements. The Department does not guarantee the equipment will operate to the user s satisfaction. Before installing this equipment users should ensure that it is permissible to be connected to the facilities of the local telecommunications company. The equipment must also be installed using an acceptable method of communication. In some cases the company s inside wiring associated with a single line individual service may be extended by means of a certified connector assembly telephone extension cord. The customer should be aware that compliance with the above conditions may not prevent degradation of service in some situations. Repairs to certified equipment should be made by an authorized Canadian maintenance facility designated by the supplier. Any repairs of alterations made by the user to this equipment or equipment malfunctions may give the telecommunications company cause to request the user to disconnect the equipment. Users should ensure for their own protection that the electrical ground connections of the power utility telephone lines and internal metallic water pipe system if present are connected together. This precaution may be particularly important in rural areas. Caution Users should not attempt to make such connections themselves but should contact the appropriate electric inspection authority or electrician as appropriate. The Ringer Equivalent Number REN. assigned to each terminal device provides an indication of the maximum number of terminals allowed to be connected to a telephone interface. The termination on an interface may consist of any combination of devices subject only to the requirement that the sum of the Ringer Equivalence Number of all the devices does not exceed. Avis L tiquette du minist re de l Industrie Canada identifie le mat riel homologu. Cette tiquette certifie que le mat riel est conforme certaines normes de protection d exploitation et de s curit des r seaux de t l communications. Le Minist re n assure toutefois pas que le mat riel fonctionnera la satisfaction de l utilisateur. AppendixD. Notices Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAvant d installer ce mat riel l utilisateur doit s assurer qu il est permis de le raccorder aux installations de l entreprise locale de t l communication. Le mat riel doit galement tre install en suivant une m thode accept e de raccordement. Dans certains cas les fils int rieurs de l entreprise utilis s pour un service individuel ligne unique peuvent tre prolong s au moyen d un dispositif homologu de raccordement cordon prolongateur t l phonique interne. L abonn ne doit pas oublier qu il est possible que la conformit aux conditions nonc es ci dessus n empechent pas la d gradation du service dans certaines situations. Actuellement les entreprises de t l communication ne permettent pas que l on raccorde leur mat riel des jacks d abonn sauf dans les cas pr cis pr vus par les tarifs paticuliers de ces entreprises. Les r parations de mat riel homologu doivent tre effectu es par un centre d entretien canadien autoris d sign par le fournisseur. La compagnie de t l communications peut demander l utilisateur de d brancher un appareil la suite de r parations ou de modifications effectu es par l utilisateur ou cause de mauvais fonctionnement. Pour sa propre protection l utilisateur doit s assurer que tous les fils de mise la terre de la source d nergie lectrique des lignes t l phoniques et des canalisations d eau m talliques s il y en a sont raccord s ensemble. Cette pr caution est particuli rement importante dans les r gions rurales. Avertissement L utilisateur ne doit pas tenter de faire ces raccordements lui m me il doit avoir recours un service d inspection des installations lectriques ou lectricien selon le cas. L indice de charge IC assign chaque dispositif terminal indique REN. pour viter toute surcharge le pourcentage de la charge totale qui peut tre raccord e un circuit t l phonique boucl utilis par ce dispositif. La terminaison du circuit boucl peut tre constitu e de n importe quelle combinaison de dispositifs pourvu que la somme des indices de charge de l ensemble des dispositifs ne d passe pas. Notice for Australia The following notice applies when using the telephony functions WARNING FOR SAFETY REASONS ONLY CONNECT EQUIPMENT WITH A TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPLIANCE LABEL. THIS INCLUDES CUSTOMER EQUIPMENT PREVIOUSLY LABELLED PERMITTED OR CERTIFIED. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineNotice for New Zealand For the modem with approval number PTC v The grant of a Telepermit for any item of terminal equipment indicates only that Telecom has accepted that the item complies with minimum conditions for connection to its network. It indicates no endorsement of the product by Telecom nor does it provide any sort of warranty. Above all it provides no assurance that any item will work correctly in all respects with another item of Telepermitted equipment of a different make or model nor does it imply that any product is compatible with all of Telecom s network services. v Functional tests This equipment is not capable under all operating conditions of correct operation at the higher speeds for which it is designed. Telecom will accept no responsibility should difficulties arise in such circumstances. v Fail safe requirements Under power failure conditions this appliance may not operate. Please ensure that a separate telephone not dependent on local power is available. v Automatic re attempts to the same number Some parameters required for compliance with Telecom s Telepermit requirements are dependent on the equipment PC associated with this device. The associated equipment shall be set to operate within the following limits for compliance with Telecom s Specifications There shall be no more than call attempts to the same number within any minute period for any single manual call initiation and The equipment shall go on hook for a period of not less than seconds between the end of one attempt and the beginning of the next attempt. v For automatic calls to different numbers Some parameters required for compliance with Telecom s Telepermit requirements are dependent on the equipment PC associated with this device. In order to operate within the limits for compliance with Telecom s specifications the associated equipment shall be set to ensure that automatic calls to different numbers are spaced such that there is not less than seconds between the end of one call attempt and the beginning of another. v For automatic call set up This equipment shall not be set up to make automatic calls to Telecom s Emergency Service. v Call answering Some parameters required for compliance with Telecom s Telepermit requirements are dependent on the equipment PC associated with this device. In order to operate within the limits of compliance with Telecom s AppendixD. Notices Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search enginespecifications the associated equipment shall be set to ensure that calls are answered between and seconds of receipt of ringing. v For correct operation the total of the RN s of all devices connected to a single line at any time should not exceed. For modem with approval number PTC The grant of a Telepermit for any item of terminal equipment indicates only that Telecom has accepted that the item complies with the minimum conditions for connection to its network. It indicates no endorsement of the product by Telecom nor does it provide any sort of warranty. Above all it provides no assurance that any item will work correctly in all respects with another item of Telepermitted equipment of a different make or model nor does it imply that any product is compatible with all of Telecom s network services. This equipment is not capable under all operating conditions of correct operation at the higher speed which it is designed kbit s and kbit s connections are likely to be restricted to lower bit rates when connected to some PSTN implementations. Telecom will accept no responsibility should difficulties arise in such circumstances. This equipment shall not be used in any manner which could constitute a nuisance to other Telecom customers. Some parameters required for compliance with Telecom s Telepermit requirements are dependent on the equipment PC associated with this modem. The associated equipment shall be set to operate within the following limits for compliance with Telecom s specification. For automatically initiated calls to the same number a. There shall be no more than call attempts to the same number within any minute period for a single manual call initiation and b. The equipment shall go on hook for a period of not less than seconds between the end of one attempt and the beginning of the next attempt For automatically initiated calls to different numbers The equipment shall go on hook for a period of not less than seconds between the end of one attempt and the beginning of the next attempt Auto answering incoming calls Incoming calls shall be answered between and seconds of receipt of ringing. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineNotice for European Union countries Hereby Ambit declares that this J M modem is in conformity with the essential requirements and other relevant provisions of Directive EC. AppendixD. Notices Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineProduct notice requirements The following notice applies to machines equipped with both a DVD and a TV out function This product incorporates copyright protection technology that is protected by method claims of certain U.S. patents and other intellectual property rights owned by Macrovision Corporation and other rights owners. Use of this copyright protection technology must be authorized by Macrovision Corporation and is intended for home and other limited viewing use only unless otherwise authorized by Macrovision Corporation. Reverse engineering or disassembly is prohibited. Environmental notices for Japan Collecting and recycling a disused ThinkPad computer If you are a company employee and need to dispose of a ThinkPad computer that is the property of the company you must do so in accordance with the Waste Disposal Law. The computer is categorized as industrial waste containing iron glass plastics and other materials. It should be properly disposed of by an industrial waste disposal contractor certified by a local government. For details visit the IBM Web site at www.ibm.com jp pc recycle pc If you use a ThinkPad computer at home and need to dispose of it you must comply with local ordinances and regulations. Disposing of a ThinkPad computer component containing heavy metal The printed circuit board of a ThinkPad computer contains heavy metal. Soldering with lead is used on the printed circuit board. To properly dispose of the disused printed circuit board follow the instructions in Collecting and recycling a disused ThinkPad computer. Disposing of a disused lithium battery A button shaped lithium battery is installed on the system board of your ThinkPad computer to back up the main battery. If you want to replace it with a new one contact your place of purchase or ask for a repair service provided by IBM. If you have replaced it by yourself and want to dispose of the disused lithium battery insulate it with vinyl tape contact your place of purchase and follow the instructions. You can also see the instructions at www.ibm.com jp pc recycle battery ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineIf you use a ThinkPad computer at home and need to dispose of a lithium battery you must comply with local ordinances and regulations. Handling a disused ThinkPad battery pack Your ThinkPad computer has a lithium ion battery pack or a nickel metal hydride battery pack. If you are a company ThinkPad computer user and need to dispose of a battery pack contact the proper person in IBM sales service or marketing and follow that person s instructions. You can also see the instructions at www.ibm.com jp pc recycle battery If you use a ThinkPad computer at home and need to dispose of a battery pack you must comply with local ordinances and regulations. Trademarks The following terms are trademarks of the IBM Corporation in the United States or other countries or both IBM ThinkPad HelpCenter TrackPoint PS Ultrabay ThinkLight UltraNav Microsoft Windows and Windows NT are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and or other countries. Intel Pentium and SpeedStep are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the United States and or other countries. For a complete list of Intel trademarks see www.intel.com tradmarx.htm Other company product or service names may be the trademarks or service marks of others. AppendixD. Notices Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAppendixD. Notices Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineTo obtain your Notes and or SmartSuite CD Important To order call U.S. or You are entitled to one CD per license. The CD and Canada. standard shipping are provided at no additional Note Only one CD per license. charge. Any applicable duties and taxes imposed by Please allow to working days for local jurisdictions are extra. delivery. NO RETURNS ACCEPTED. NO PROGRAM SERVICES ARE AVAILABLE FOR THESE PROGRAMS. THEY ARE PROVIDED AS IS WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. IBM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES FOR THESE PROGRAMS EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. U.S. Government Users Restricted Rights Use duplication or disclosure restricted by GSA ADP Schedule Contract with IBM Corporation. Lotus SmartSuite Word Pro Organizer and Notes are trademarks of Lotus Development Corporation. IBM and HelpCenter are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States other countries or both. Other company product and services names may be trademarks or service marks of others. This offer is subject to change or cancellation without notice. Copyright IBM Corporation. All rights reserved. ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAppendixD. Notices Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search enginePour obtenir le s CD Notes et ou Important SmartSuite Vous n avez droit qu a un seul CD par licence. Le Pour commander composez le CD et les frais d envoi sont gratuits mais les taxes Etats Unis ou Canada. et droits en vigueur localement seront factures. Remarque Un seul CD par licence. Comptez jours ouvrables pour la r ception du produit. AUCUN RENVOI NE SERA ACCEPTE AUCUN SERVICE DE PROGRAMME N EST DISPONIBLE POUR CES PROGRAMMES. ILS SONT FOURNIS EN L ETAT SANS AUCUNE GARANTIE D AUCUNE SORTE. IBM EXCLUT TOUTE GARANTIE EXPRESSE OU IMPLICITE NOTAMMENT TOUTE GARANTIE DE QUALITE ET D ADEQUATION A UN USAGE PARTICULIER. U.S. Government Users Restricted Rights Utilisation duplication ou divulgation limit es par le Contract Schedule ADP GSA avec IBM Corporation. Lotus SmartSuite Word Pro Organizer et Notes sont des marques d pos es de Lotus Development Corporation. IBM et HelpCenter sont des marques d pos es de International Business Machines Corporation aux Etats Unis et ou dans d autres pays. Les noms d autres services produits ou soci t s peuvent tre des marques d pos es ou de service d autres soci t s. Cette offre peut faire l objet d annulation ou de modification sans avis pr Copyright IBM Corporation. Tous droits r serv s. Part Number Num ro de r f rence P ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineLotus SmartSuite Millennium Edition License CD SmartSuite Millennium Edition prepares you for a new era in computing. Included with your new IBM Personal Computer is Lotus SmartSuite Millennium edition for Win. Lotus SmartSuite provides eight innovative applications with time saving features that give you a head start on your work and guide you through tasks with fewer steps to perform your tasks. Other highlights include Lotus spreadsheet Lotus Millennium Edition for Windows combines over years of computer productivity innovations into the world s most famous spreadsheet. Millennium Edition delivers new easy to use tools to help users complete everyday tasks efficiently and effectively. the NEW FastSite intranet publisher Making its debut is Lotus FastSite the suite s new document publishing tool for the Web. Organizer time and contact manager Lotus Organizer is the award winning personal and group scheduler with more than million users worldwide. Word Pro word processor Lotus Word Pro Millennium Edition for Windows increases word processing productivity for end users by providing the most advanced technology in the areas of Internet publishing file compatibility and speech recognition. Freelance Graphics presentation graphics Lotus Freelance Graphics Millennium Edition for Windows transforms presentation graphics into an everyday visual communications tool for individuals and teams Approach database Lotus Approach Millennium Edition for Windows is the award winning relational database that provides an easy way to query report on and analyze data. ScreenCam multimedia software Lotus ScreenCam is Lotus bit PC Screen capture software for Windows. English AppendixD. Notices Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine and SmartCenter Internet information manager Lotus SmartCenter is SmartSuite Millennium Edition s customizable command center designed to work like a file cabinet. SmartCenter offers users a simple way to access and organize information from SmartSuite applications Lotus Notes and the Internet. Notes R with Messaging License Also included is a Lotus Notes R with Messaging license No Cal the most advanced messaging client for the intranet. Notes Mail is the messaging client in the Lotus Notes family of versatile easy to use clients. With integrated e mail Web acess POP support group scheduling newsgroups document libraries and discussions no other messaging client can match the power and convenience of Lotus Notes. To obtain your CD please complete the enclosed fulfilment form or obtain media through your Lotus reseller. KEY FEATURES AND BENEFITS NEW! Lotus FastSite A streamlined desktop application that makes Internet publishing fast and easy. You created the content now you can easily format it for publishing to the Internet or your company s intranet. Year Ready Be ready for the new millennium. SmartSuite applications are consistent with Lotus and IBM s definition for year readiness. Compatibility With Microsoft Office and most other popular desktop applications. Integration with Lotus Notes and most other strategic enterprise systems. Synergy with Lotus eSuite Share data between eSuite and SmartSuite applications preserving both content and format. Minimum System Requirements Memory SmartSuite Millennium Edition requires MB RAM for Windows. MB or more recommended MB RAM for Windows NT Hardware FastSite requires MB of RAM. IBM PC or compatible or higher VGA adapter and monitor Disk Space CD ROM drive. media exchange MB available disk space to install the minimum available a mouse or other features MB of available disk space required to pointing device. run from CD ROM drive. Software Browsers MS Windows Lotus FastSite requires Microsoft Internet Explorer. or later included. English ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineConditions of Use If you already have a valid licence for Lotus SmartSuite Millennium edition or for Lotus SmartSuite this document entitles you to make an additional copy of the software for use on the IBM PC boxed with this Lotus SmartSuite Millennium brochure. If you do not have the CD media for Lotus SmartSuite Millennium with this IBM PC this document entitles you to order a CD Rom version of SmartSuite Millennium edition for a nominal charge for use with Microsoft Windows Microsoft Windows or Microsoft Windows NT If you already have a valid licence for Lotus Notes Mail this document entitles you to make an additional copy of the software for use on the IBM PC boxed with this Lotus SmartSuite Millennium brochure. If you do not have the CDmedia for Lotus Notes Mail with this IBM PC this document entitles you to order a CD Rom version of Lotus Notes Mail for a nominal charge for use with Microsoft Windows. IBM International Program Licence Agreement This offer is governed by copyright law and the IBM International Program Licence Agreement that comes with your IBM PC. Your use of the Lotus SmartSuite Millennium programs or CD Rom described in this offer constitutes acceptance of these terms. License Information Additional Terms and Conditions These programs are not for resale. Proof of Entitlement The Proof of Purchase for the IBM Personal Computer boxed with this Lotus SmartSuite Millennium brochure should be retained to support your entitlement. Program Service Only day up and running support is available. See inside this document for information regarding Lotus Customer Support options. Statement of Service These programs are provided AS IS. PROGRAMS DESIGNATED AS NO ARE PROVIDED WITHOUT A PROGRAM WARRANTY. THEY ARE PROVIDED AS IS WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. IBM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES FOR THESE PROGRAMS EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. U.S. Government Users Restricted Rights Use duplication or disclosure restricted by GSA ADP Schedule Contract with IBM Corporation. Lotus SmartSuite Approach Freelance Graphics Word Pro ScreenCam TeamReview TeamConsolidate TeamMail SmartCenter and Organizer are trademarks of Lotus Development Corporation. IBM is a trademark of International Business Machines Incorporated. Microsoft and Windows NT are trademarks or registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. CompuServe is a trademark of CompuServe Incorporated. Other company product and services names may be trademarks or service marks of others. This offer is subject to change or cancellation without notice. Lotus SmartSuite Millennium or support might not be available in all languages or countries. Copyright International Business Machines Corporation. All rights reserved. English AppendixD. Notices Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineIBM Introductory Support Limited introductory telephone support is included from IBM HelpWare for SmartSuite Millennium at no charge for days from date of purchase when you register your IBM hardware. Follow these simple guidelines if you encounter a problem or have a question about Lotus SmartSuite Millennium Be at your computer. Document what you were doing when the problem occurred write down the exact text of any messages displayed on your screen. Create a backup of any files for which you are seeking support. This service provides Up and Running assistance only. Refer to the IBM documentation that comes with your IBM PC for details of where to call for this free introductory telephone support. Lotus Warranty Support Lotus Warranty support is not included with this offer. Lotus on the Web The Lotus Web site provides you with complete access to information about Lotus its products Business Partners Solutions and Education. Access the site at http www.lotus.com Paid Support You can obtain more extensive support such as assistance to how to questions for a fee through Lotus directly on For more information about Lotus support options visit the Lotus support web pages at www.support.lotus.com For queries with regard to your Smartsuite CD order fulfillment from the coupon supplied please E Mail to Ibm millennium modusmedia.com English ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAppendixD. Notices Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAppendixD. Notices Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineIndex A S Access IBM v safety instruction standby problems B Startup battery problems problems storage device upgrading BIOS Setup T C telephone help by carrying the computer testing with PC Doctor cleaning the computer ThinkPadAssistant v computer display problems TrackPoint problems configuration U setup UltraNav problems E W electronic help v error messages Web help by errors without messages F fax help by H hard disk problems upgrading hibernation problems I IBM help v Important Wireless Regulatory Notice for Users iii Information about hard disk capacity iii K keyboard problems O on board help v P password problems PC Doctor for Windows power switch problems problems troubleshooting R recovering software Copyright IBM Corp. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine ThinkPad R Series Service and Troubleshooting Guide Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineDownloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine cid cid cid Part Number P P P N P Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine