User Manual imagination at work Getting Started GE Digital Camera E Series E W Basic operation Camera function controls Playback Using the Menus Camera connectivity Appendix EN Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineWARNING Do not expose the camera battery pack or other accessories This symbol crossed out wheeled bin WEEE Annex to rain or humidity to prevent a fire hazard or electric shock. IV indicates separate collection of electrical and electronic waste in the European countries. Please do not throw the equipment into the waste. Please recycle and For customers in the U.S.A. dispose of properly. Tested To Comply With FCC Standards Declaration of Conformity FOR HOME OR OFFICE USE Model Name E W FCC Statement Trade Name GE This device complies with part of the FCC Rules. Operation Responsible Party General Imaging Co. is subject to the following two conditions Address W. th Street Suite Gardena This device may not cause harmful interference and CA U.S.A. this device must accept any interference received including Customer Service Telephone Number interference that may cause undesired operation. Outside U.S. Canada For customers in Europe Conforms to the following Standards CE mark indicates that this product complies EMC EN A A Class B with the European requirements for safety health EN A A environment and customer protection. CE marked cameras EN A are intended for sales in Europe. EN A following the provision of the EMC Directive EEC EEC i Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSAFETY PRECAUTIONS Camera notes Do not expose the battery to water and take particular care to keep the terminals dry. Do not store or use the camera in the following environments Do not heat the Battery or throw it into a fire. In the rain in humid or dusty environments. Do not attempt to deform disassemble or modify the In a place where the camera can be exposed directly to battery. sunlight or subject to high temperatures e.g. Inside a closed car in summer. Keep the battery out of reach of babies and small children. In a place where the camera is subject to a high magnetic In cold locations battery performance deteriorates and field e.g. near motors transformers or magnets. battery life is significantly shortened. Do not place the camera on a wet surface or places where dripping water or sand may come in contact with the camera. Memory card notes If the camera will not be used for a long period of time remove the battery and the memory card from the camera and store When using a new memory card be sure to format the card them in a dry environment. with your digital camera before using it. If you carry the camera suddenly from a cold location to a Do not change or delete the folder names or file names in the warm place moisture may condense inside the camera. It memory card from your PC or the camera may not be able to is suggested that you wait for a while before turning on the display those edited files on its LCD screen. To edit image data camera. copy the image data to the PC s hard disk first. Loss of recordings or data cannot be compensated for if a The photos taken by this camera are stored in the auto malfunction of your camera or recording media makes the generated folder in the SD card. Please do not store photos playback of recordings not possible. that are not taken by this model of camera as this may make Battery notes it impossible to recognize the picture when the camera is in playback mode. Incorrect use of the battery may cause it to leak become hot ignite or burst. Always observe the following precautions. iiii Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineBEFORE YOU START Preface Safety Information Thank you for purchasing this GE digital camera. Please read Please read the following important information carefully this manual carefully and keep it in a safe place for future before using this product. reference. Do not take apart or attempt to service the camera your self. Copyright Do not drop or knock the camera. Improper handling may Copyright General Imaging Company All rights damage the product. reserved. Turn off the camera before inserting or removing the bat No part of this publication may be reproduced transmitted tery and memory card. transcribed stored in a retrieval system or translated into any language or computer language in any form by any Use only the type of battery that comes with the camera. means without the prior written permission of General Imag Using other types of batteries may damage the camera ing Company. and void the warranty. Do not touch the camera lens. Trademarks Please do not expose the camera to harsh environments All trademarks mentioned in this manual are used for identi such as moisture or extreme temperatures which may fication purposes only and are properties of their respective shorten the life of your camera or damage the battery. owners. Do not operate or store the camera in dusty dirty or sandy environments. ii Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine Do not expose the lens to direct sunlight for extended About This Manual periods. Download all pictures and remove the batteries from This manual provides you with instructions on how to use your the camera if you are going to store the camera for long GE digital camera. Every effort has been made to ensure that periods of time. the contents of this manual are accurate however General Do not use abrasive cleansers alcohol based or solvent Imaging Company reserves the right to make changes without based cleaners to clean the camera. To clean wipe the notice. camera with a slightly damp soft cloth. Symbols used in this manual Throughout this manual the following symbols are used to help you locate information quickly and easily Indicates useful information to consider. Indicates precautions to be taken while operating the camera. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineCONTENTS WARNING i Using the Mode Button Setting language and date time SAFETY PRECAUTIONS ii Setting the Language BEFORE YOU START Setting the Date and Time About the LCD Screen Preface Copyright BASIC OPERATION Trademarks Shooting in Auto Mode Safety information Using the Zoom Function About this manual Flash Symbols used in this manual Self timer CONTENTS Macro Mode Using quick recording GETTING READY Advanced Functions Menu Unpacking Size Camera Views Quality Charging the Battery WB White Balance Inserting the Battery and SD SDHC Color Card Not included ISO Turning On and Off Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineExposure Compensation Beach Sunset USING THE MODES Fireworks LCD Screen Display Night Landscape Still Picture Mode Display Night Portrait Video Shooting Mode Display Party Playback Mode Display Children Auto Scene Mode ASCN Indoor Landscape Snow Portrait ID Night Portrait Museum Backlit Portrait Photo frame Night Landscape Panning Shot Macro Text Auto Leaf Panorama Glass Manual Scene Mode SCN Fish eye Landscape Sketch Sport Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineStabilization mode Quick Review Blink Detection Date Imprint Movie Menu PLAYBACK Expo Metering Exposure Metering Viewing Photos and Videos Continuous AF Thumbnail View DIS Digital Image Stabilization Using Zoom on Playback for still pictures only Playback Menu Using the Delete Button Protect Delete USING THE MENUS DPOF Digital Print Order Format Still Menu Resize AF Mode Auto Focus mode Rotate AF Assist Beam Red eye Reduction Expo Metering Exposure Metering Trim Continuous Shot HDR High Dynamic Range Continuous AF Display Setup Smile Detection Slideshow Digital Zoom Wallpaper Settings Slow Shutter Setup Menu Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineBeep Connecting to a PictBridge Compatible Printer LCD Brightness Setting the USB Mode Power Saver Connecting the Camera and Printer Date Time Using the PictBridge Menu Zone Print with Date Language Print without Date File and Software Print Index Format Memory Print DPOF Copy to Card Copy internal memory to Exit memory card File Numbering APPENDICES Reset Settings Specifications FW Version Firmware version Error Messages Troubleshooting Transmission Video System Connecting to a PC Setting the USB Mode Transferring Files to your PC Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineGETTING READY Unpacking Your package should contain the camera model you purchased along with the following items. If anything is missing or appears to be damaged please contact General Imaging. Warranty Card CD ROM Wrist Strap USB Cable Rechargeable lithium ion battery Power Adapter Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineCamera Views Front View Back View Right View Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineTop View Bottom View Delete Button Self timer Button Flash Down Button AF assist beam Timer indicator Macro Left button Lens Function OK Button Left View Microphone USB AV Out Port LCD Screen Wrist Strap Mount Zoom Button Power Button Power Indicator Recording Shortcut Button Mode Selection Button Shutter Button Playback Button Speaker Menu Button Tripod Mount Point Disp Up Button Memory Card Battery Compartment Flash Mode Right Button Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineCharging the Battery. Put the battery into the camera. Leave the battery charging until the charger light turns green. To maximize battery life the first charge should. Use the USB cable to connect the camera to the power be at least hours. adapter Insert the power adapter into the power socket. The charger is for indoor use only. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineInsert the Battery and SD SDHC Card Not included. Open the battery compartment Insert the battery into the battery slot in the correct position as shown in the following diagram. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine. Insert an SD SDHC card not included into the memory. Close the battery compartment. card slot as shown. Write protection buckle Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineOptional SD SDHC cards are not included. The use Turning On and Off of MB to GB memory cards from recognized manufacturers such as SanDisk Panasonic and Toshiba are recommended for reliable data storage. Press the Power button to turn the camera on. To turn off the camera press the Power button again. To remove the SD SDHC card open the battery Power Button compartment and gently push the card to release it. Pull the card out carefully. When the camera is turned on it will default to the the shooting mode last used. You can use the Mode button on the back to change modes. When using the camera for the first time the language setup page will appear. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineMode Button Operation The GE camera features a convenient mode button that allows for easy mode selection. All available modes are listed as follows Mode Name Icon Description Auto mode Select to take still pictures in automatic mode. Manual mode Many of the camera settings can be configured manually in this mode. M ASCN mode Select to have the camera automatically select the best scene type for still pictures. Panorama mode In this mode up to frames can be stitched together to create a panoramic photo. Scene mode Choose from different scene types and effects for your photos. Select to take still pictures by reducing motion blur caused by hand shake low luminance or Stabilization mode slow shutter speeds. Portrait Select to take portrait pictures under normal conditions. Movie mode Select to record videos. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSetting Language and Date Time The Date Time and Language setup page will automatically appear when the camera is turned on the first time. To set the display language and date time go to the following setup options in the General Setup menu. Language Date Time To access the General Setup menu do the following. Press the Power button to turn the camera on Press the button then switch among camera settings menus with the Left Right button and select the General Setup menu. Then press the Up Down button to access General Setup menu options. Setting the Language. Select language with the Down button then press the or right button to enter language options Use the Up Down Left Right buttons to select the desired language Press the button to confirm the setting. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSetting the Date and Time. Select date time with Up Down button then press the or right button to enter the date time settings options Use the Left Right button to select the date or time field then press the Up Down buttons to adjust the values Press the button to confirm the setting. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAbout the LCD Screen When you turn the camera on various icons are shown on the If the LCD monitor is damaged take particular care LCD screen to indicate the current camera settings and status. with the liquid inside the monitor. If any of the following To learn more about the displayed icons see LCD Screen situations arise take the recommended immediate display on page. action indicated below LCD Screen notes If liquid from the LCD comes in contact with your skin Extremely high precision technology has been used to wipe the area with a cloth and then wash thoroughly with manufacture the LCD screen so that most of the pixels are soap and running water. operational for use. However there may be some minute If liquid from the LCD flows into the eyes inadvertently points black white red blue or green that constantly please rinse with water immediately and seek medical appear on the LCD screen. These points are normal in the assistance. manufacturing process and the recorded image is not affected in any way. If liquid from the LCD is swallowed flush your mouth thoroughly with water. Drink large quantities of water Avoid exposing the LCD screen to water please remove and induce vomiting. Then seek medical assistance any moisture on the LCD screen with a soft dry cleaning immediately. cloth. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineBASIC OPERATION Shooting in Auto Mode Using the Zoom Function Auto mode is the easiest mode to take photos. While Your camera is equipped with two types of zoom functions operating in this mode the camera automatically optimizes optical zoom and digital zoom. Press the Zoom button of the the camera s settings for best results under average shooting camera to zoom in or out of the subject while taking pictures. conditions. To start shooting do the following. Press the Power button to turn the camera on In the Mode menu select the Auto mode Compose your picture in the LCD screen and press the Shutter button halfway to focus on the subject The focus frame in the middle of the LCD will turn to green when the subject is properly in focus. Zoom indicator See Digital Zoom on. Press the Shutter button fully to capture the image. page When the optical zoom reaches its maximum value it stops momentarily. Release and push the zoom button again and the optical zoom will switch over to digital zoom automatically. After the adjustment the zoom indication scale will hide immediately the current zoom status is indicated by the following symbol. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineFlash Self timer Press the Right Flash button to enter the flash interface then To enable the self timer press the Down Self timer button to press the Left Right button to select between six different enter the self timer selection interface then press the Left flash modes Right button to switch between three self timer modes Flash Forced off Self timer Off Flash is disabled. The self timer is disabled. Flash Forced flash Self timer Sec A single picture is taken seconds after the Shutter The flash fires with every shot. button is pressed. Flash Red Eye Slow Synchro Self timer Sec Use this mode for slow synchro shots with red eye A single picture is taken seconds after the Shutter reduction. button is pressed. Flash Slow Synchro The flash timing is adjusted to slow shutter speeds. This enables you to capture night photos of people which include night scenery. Flash Red eye reduction The camera emits a brief flash before the picture is taken to reduce red eye effects. Flash Auto Camera flash fires automatically based on existing light conditions. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineMacro Mode Using quick recording Press the Left Macro button to enter the close up photo In shooting mode press the Recording shortcut button to selection interface then press the Left Right button to switch begin recording video. between two close up shooting modes Macro On Select this to focus on subjects cm from the lens. Macro Off Select this option to disable Macro. After finishing press the Recording shortcut button or the Shutter button to stop and store the video. The camera will return to shooting mode. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAdvanced Functions Menu The Advanced Functions menu of the camera includes image size image quality white balance image color ISO and EV value. These customized settings will allow you to configure the camera s settings for specialized shooting conditions. Set the advanced functions as follows Pull up the Advanced Function Menu by pressing the button Now press the Up button to enter the advanced function setting interface Use the Left Right buttons to change the settings then press the button to confirm the new settings and close the Advanced Function Menu Press the Down button to enter the advanced function selection screen then press the Left Right button to select the function that you want to set. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSize Quality The size setting refers to the image resolution in pixels. A The quality setting determines how much the camera higher image resolution allows you to print that image in compresses the photo files. The higher the compression the larger sizes without degrading the image quality. smaller the file size will be but the quality will decrease. The lower the compression the larger the file size but the better the quality. The larger the pictures are the bigger the file sizes are The three levels of compression are and the less pictures you can store on a memory card. Quality Best Quality Fine Quality Normal Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineWB White Balance Color When the white balance setting is adjusted to match the light The color setting option allows you to add artistic effects source the camera will reproduce colors more accurately. The when taking pictures. You can try different color tones to alter WB setting is only available when the camera is in the M the mood of your pictures. The Color option is only available Manual mode. when the camera is in the M Manual mode. The options of White Balance adjustment include The color options include WB Auto Color Auto WB Daylight Color Vivid WB Cloudy Color Black White WB Fluorescent WB Fluorescent CFW Cool White Fluorescent Color Sepia WB Incandescent WB Manual Press the shutter button to set WB. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineISO Exposure Compensation The ISO function allows you to set the sensitivity of the The exposure compensation feature allows you to adjust the camera s sensor to light. To improve the performance in light exposure value to control the brightness of the image. darker environments a higher ISO value is required. On the other hand a lower ISO value is needed when in bright conditions. The ISO setting is only available when the camera is in the M Manual mode. Pictures taken with higher ISO will generally have more noise than those taken with lower ISO. The adjustable range of exposure value is from EV. to EV EV adjustment can also be changed in Movie mode. The options of ISO include automatic and. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineUSING THE MODES LCD Screen Display Still Picture Mode Display Shooting Mode Icons Auto mode Manual mode Mode M ASCN mode Panorama mode Scene mode Stabilization mode Portrait mode AF Mode Single AF Multi AF Expo Metering Spot Center AiAE Image Size Image Quality Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine Remaining number of pictures Flash Mode Memory card built in memory Flash Forced off Battery Status Flash Forced flash Zoom icon Flash Red Eye Slow Synchro Zoom WT Ratio Displayed only when zoom is activated Exposure compensation value Flash Slow Synchro ISO Value Adjustable only in M Manual Mode Flash Red eye reduction Histogram Flash Auto Focus Frame Continuous Shot Slow Shutter Warning Face Detection Picture Color Adjustable only in Manual Mode M White Balance Adjustable only in Manual Mode M Macro Mode Self timer Self timer sec Self timer sec Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineVideo Shooting Mode Display Self timer Mode Self timer sec Remaining Time for Video Recording Memory Card Built in Memory Battery Status Zoom icon Zoom WT Ratio Displayed only when zoom is activated Exposure compensation value Recording Status Icon Recording standby Recording Video Mode icon For optimal video shooting it is recommended that an Continuous AF SD card be used. Recording videos with the internal Metering memory may result in image jitter and image noise. Spot Center HD recording time is limited to less than minutes. AiAE During video recording the x optical zoom and x Image Size digital zoom are available. Macro mode Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search enginePlayback Mode Display. Playback Mode icon Mode. DPOF file. File protection. Picture Number. Memory Card Built in Memory. Battery Status. Image Zoom. The current display area. Zoom magnification area shown. Memory Space this picture Total number of pictures. Recording Date and Time OK PLAY. HDR Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAuto Scene Mode ASCN In the ASCN mode different conditions are detected. Hold the camera steadily and aim at the subject. The intelligently and the most suitable settings will be optimum scene mode will be identified automatically. automatically selected Press the Shutter button halfway down to focus Press the Shutter button all the way down to take the To use ASCN picture Press the mode selection button and select ASCN mode press the button to enter ASCN mode the LCD screen Icon Mode name Icon Mode name will display the detected scene icon as shown in the Landscape Mode Night Landscape Mode following figure Portrait Mode Macro Mode Night Portrait Auto Mode Backlit Portrait Landscape Mode For landscapes ASCN will automatically adjust the exposure to match the background. Portrait Mode For portraits ASCN will automatically adjust the exposure and skin tones for more natural lokking pictures. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineNight Portrait Panorama When you shoot portraits at night or in low light conditions ASCN will automatically adjust the exposure for people and Panorama Mode allows you to create a panoramic picture by night scenes. stitching together several pictures. Backlit Portrait Follow these steps to create a panoramic picture When the sun or any other light source is behind you ASCN. Press the Mode button use the Left Right button to select will automatically adjust the foreground exposure to produce Panorama mode then press the button to confirm the good pictures. setting Use the Left Right button to select the direction of image Night Landscape Mode stitching e.g. left to right or right to left. Then press the For night scenes ASCN will automatically increase the ISO button to confirm the setting if no selection is made value to compensate for low light. the camera will default to left to right stitching after seconds. Macro Mode. After the first shot is taken two target icons will appear on To capture object detail for close ups ASCN will automatically the left and right side of the LCD screen. Pan the camera adjust the focus. and the circle icon on the screen will move towards the square frame icon. When the circle icon and square frame Auto Mode connect they will turn green and the camera will take the The camera automatically adjusts the exposure and focus to picture automatically. Repeat the same step for the third ensure good pictures. picture to finish the stitching. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineManual Scene Mode SCN In Manual Scene mode you can select from a total of scene types to match your needs. You just need to select the right scene for the occasion and the camera will automatically adjust to the optimal settings for you. Press the Mode button then use the Left Right button to enter. After taking frames the camera will stitch the images together automatically. Press the Playback button to view the Scene Selection mode menu then press the button to the final image. enter Scene Selection mode the following figure will display on LCD screen After selecting Panorama mode the Flash Self timer Macro mode and Exposure Compensation settings can t be adjusted. After taking a Panoramic picture press the func ok button to save and exit or press the Delete button to cancel and exit. Panorama Mode can stitch a maximum of pictures. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSelect a scene using the Up Down Left Right button and press Landscape the button. For landscapes. Vivid reproduction of green and blue. Sport Icon Mode Name Icon Mode Name For fast moving subjects. Capture sharp action shots without Landscape Sport blur. Beach Sunset Beach For capturing images in scenes with strong sunlight. Fireworks Night Landscape Night Portrait Party Sunset For sunsets. Capture subjects in strong sunlight. Children Indoor Fireworks Snow ID For fireworks at night. Shutter speed is adjusted to capture spectacular images. The use of a tripod is recommended. Museum Photo frame Panning Shot Text Night landscape For night scenes. The use of tripod is recommended. Leaf Glass Night portrait Fish eye Sketch For portraits against night scenery. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineGathering Travel shooting For taking pictures of large groups or in areas with uneven Produces background image blur that emphasizes the motion lighting. of the main subject. Children Text For children and pets. Flash is disabled for eye protection. For capturing documents printed material and presentation boards. Indoor For indoors. Reduce blur and improve color accuracy. Leaf For plants. Capture brilliant shots of greenery and blossoms. Snow For snow scenes. Reproduce natural looking snow scenery. Glass For objects behind transparent glass. ID For shooting ID size photos. Fish eye Creates a fish eye effect by distorting the center of the image. Museum For museum or flash free areas. Retain color and reduce blur. Sketch For taking photos with pencil sketch effect. Photo frame For adding interesting frame effects to the photo. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineStabilization mode This mode can help reduce image blur caused by hand shake low light or when using slow shutter speeds After selecting the scene type press the button to activate After setting the option press the button to confirm the setting and enter the selected Scene Selection mode for shooting. The main function menu also allows you to adjust the image Use stabilization mode in dark environments or when quality and image size. Please refer to the Advanced using slow shutter speeds. Functions Menu section on page for detailed instructions. Shooting in a windy or unstable environment such as a moving vehicle may cause blurred images. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineBlink Detection Blink Detection is enabled by default unless disabled by the user. When shooting if a face is detected with its eyes closed the Blink Detection will appear on the screen to show that a blink was detected. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search enginePLAYBACK Viewing Photos and Videos To view the captured photos and video clips on the LCD screen. Press the button to enter the Playback mode. The last recorded photo or video clip will appear Use the Left Right navigation buttons to scroll through the photos or video clips stored in the internal memory or memory card To play a selected video clip press the button to enter the movie playback mode. During video playback the operating instructions will appear on the screen. Press the Left Right button and press the button for confirmation. The operating instruction icons are as follows. Return to the first Return to the frame and play first frame Play Rewind Fast Forward Pause Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineWhen playing a movie press the Up Down button to increase or decrease the volume. To mute the audio press and hold the Down button until appears. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineThumbnail View In Playback mode press the end of the Zoom button and thumbnails of your photos and videos will display on the screen Use the Zoom button to switch between the x and x Date Folder thumbnail display Use the Up Down Left Right button to select a picture or video clip press the button to return to the original size When x and x thumbnails are displayed use the Up Down Left Right button to select a picture or video clip for viewing press the button to return to the original The Date Folder is displayed in order based on the size. shooting date When date folder thumbnails are displayed use the Up Down button to select the date folder you want to view. Then press the button to enter the folder and view its If the indicator appears on the LCD then a movie file is currently being displayed. images. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineUsing Zoom Playback for still pictures only The zoom buttons can also be used during playback. This. Use the navigation buttons to pan across the image. allows you to magnify photos from X Press the button to return the image to its original. Press the button to enter the Playback mode. scale Use the Left Right navigation buttons to select a photo to magnify. Movie images cannot be magnified Press the end of the Zoom button to zoom in on the selected photo Use the Zoom buttons to zoom in and out. The zoom indication and the frame of the whole photo will display on the screen. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineUsing the Delete Button In Playback mode press the Down Delete Self timer button to. Select Yes or Back with the Up Down button and press the delete photos and movies. button for confirmation. To delete pictures or videos Erased photos video clips cannot be recovered Press the button to enter the Playback Mode Select a picture or video clip you want to delete with the Please refer to page for instructions on the Delete Left Right button. Menu options Press the Down Delete button and the delete screen will appear. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineUSING THE MENUS Still Menu Mode M In any of the above Still Picture Modes press the button to go to the Still Picture menu. To adjust each setting. In the Still Picture menu switch between different Photo Setup or Camera Setup pages using the Left Right button to select the page with the function you want to adjust and press the Down button Press the Up Down button to select an option or press the Left or button to return to the menu Press the button to confirm the setting and return to the previous page. After selecting a function you can press the Up button to return to the Still Picture menu for other Photo Setup or Camera Setup pages. Or you can press the Down button several times to move to the next setup menu page Press the Up Down buttons to select the function. Refer to the following pages for more details about each setting Then press the or Right button to enter the submenu. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAF Mode Auto Focus mode AF Assist Beam Use this setting to control the auto focus mechanism while This option can turn on or turn off the AF assist lamp. The AF taking pictures. assist lamp assists the camera in focusing correctly in low light conditions. It is not recommended that this be turned off or the camera may not focus correctly. Two options are available Single AF The focus frame appears on the center of the LCD screen to focus on the subject. Multi AF The camera will focus correctly for multiple parts of the object. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineExpo Metering Exposure Metering Continuous Shot This setting determines what part of the picture the camera Use this setting to perform continuous shooting. After entering uses to determine the correct exposure for the whole picture. this mode you can shoot multiple images by by pressing and holding down the shutter button. There are five available options Three options are available OFF Turn off the Continuous Shot function. Spot Continuous shooting Press and hold the shutter button to shoot continuously until you release the Center Weight shutter or until the memory card has run out of space. AiAE Artificial Intelligence AE shot Capture up to consecutive pictures. shots Last Capture pictures continuously until the Shutter button is released. Only the last shots will be recorded. Time Lapse Automatically capture pictures at predefined intervals. The flash is designed not to work in this mode in order to enable quick succession of shots. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineContinuous AF Smile Detection The camera continuously focuses on a moving subject such as With the Smile Detection feature the camera automatically a sports player. detects and captures a person smiling. A face must be detected by the camera in order for smile detection to function correctly. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineDigital Zoom Slow Shutter Use this setting to enable or disable the digital zoom function. In Slow shutter mode the shutter will remain open as long When disabled only the optical zoom is enabled. as the Shutter button is held down for up to seconds. This gives you control over the duration of the exposure. The slow shutter mode is available only in M manual mode. Manual To set a long exposure time between seconds. The use of tripod is recommended for prolonged exposure times. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineQuick Review Date Imprint This setting refers to the brief photo review immediately after Include a Date Time stamp in the photo image. There are taking a picture. The picture stays on the LCD screen for an three options available adjustable period of time. Off Four options are available Date Off Date and Time sec sec sec Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineMovie Menu Mode In Movie Mode press the button to go to the correspond ing Movie menu. To configure each setting. In the Movie menu switch between the Movie Setup or different Camera Setup pages using the Left Right button select the page with the function you want to adjust and press the Down button Press the Up Down button to select an option or the Left or button to return to the menu Press the button to confirm the setting and return to the previous menu. Refer to the following pages for more details about each setting Press the Up Down arrow button to select the function to be set and Press the or Right button to enter the submenu. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineExpo Metering Exposure Metering Continuous AF This setting determines what part of the picture the camera The camera continuously focuses on a moving subject such as uses to determine the correct exposure for the whole picture. a sports player. Three options are available Spot Center AiAE Artificial Intelligence AE Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineDIS Digital Image Stabilization Use this function to ensure maximum stability of the screen when recording video. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search enginePlayback Menu Mode Protect In Playback mode press the button to enter the Playback To prevent pictures or videos from being accidentally erased menu. use this setting to lock one or all of the files. Please refer to the following sections for detailed instructions To protect unprotect a picture or video on the various menu options Use the Up Down arrow button and select Protect. then press the or Right button to enter the submenu. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine. Use the Up Down button and select One to protect Delete individual photos or movies or select All to protect There are three ways to delete files. all photos and movies stored in the memory card. Press the button to confirm and enter the photo movie protection interface Press the button and select Yes to lock displayed photos or videos or select Unprotect to unlock them then press the Up Down button and select Back to return to the playback menu. Selecting reset will un protect all previously protected photos and videos. Delete One. In the Delete setting select Delete One and then press the or Right button Press the Left Right button to locate the photo or video to be deleted. Press the Up Down button to select item Yes to delete the file or Cancel to return to previous menu and then press to confirm. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine Delete All DPOF Digital Print Order Format. In the Delete setting select Delete All and then press the DPOF allows you to record a selection of pictures that you or Right button. would like to print and will save your selection in the memory card so that you can simply hand your memory card to a. Use the Up Down button and select Yes to delete all files photo print shop without having to specifically tell them which or select Cancel to return to the menu. photos you would like to print. Delete Date Folder. In the Delete option press the or button after selecting date folder Use the Up Down button to select a Date Folder to be deleted press to confirm press the Up Down button to select item Yes to delete the file or Cancel to return to the menu and then press to confirm. The indicator means a file is protected. File protection must be removed first before a file can be deleted. Deleting files will cause DPOF settings to be reset. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineResize Rotate This setting allows you to resize a picture to a specified You can use this setting to change the orientation of the resolution and saves it as a new picture. picture Select the Resize setting from the Playback menu as. Select the Rotate setting from the Playback menu as described previously. described previously Use the Left Right navigation buttons to select a picture to rotate Use the Up Down navigation buttons to select the direction of rotation or Back to cancel and return to the Playback menu Use the Left Right navigation buttons to select a picture to resize Use the Up Down navigation buttons to select a resolution X or X to resize the image or Back to cancel and return to the Playback menu Press the button to confirm the setting Press the button to confirm the setting. Videos and panoramic photos cannot be rotated. Resizing an image creates a new file that contains the image in the size you select. The file with the original The rotated file will replace the original one. image also remains in the memory. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineRed eye Reduction Trim Use this setting to remove red eye effect in your photos. The Trim setting allows you to trim an area of a selected photo. Select Red eye Reduction in the Playback menu as and save it as a new photo. described previously. To trim a picture. Use the Left Right button to select the picture from which. Select the Trim setting from the menu. red eye effect needs to be removed Using the Left Right buttons locate the photo that you. Use the Up Down navigation buttons and select Yes to want to trim and have it displayed on the LCD. fix the selected image or Back to cancel and return to the. Select Yes to confirm trimming then use the zoom Playback menu. buttons and navigation buttons to adjust the trimming box to fit the location and size of the new picture Press the button to confirm the setting. For best results the face of the subject should be. Press the button and Save Changes? will appear. relatively large on the LCD screen the subject should be Select O to confirm changes and save it as a new image facing the camera as directly as possible and the eyes or select X to cancel changes and return to the previous should be as large as possible. menu. red eye is not detected! will display on the screen if The image can not be cropped again once it has been the camera does not detect red eye effect. cropped to X. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineHDR High Dynamic Range Display Setup With the HDR function pictures that are overexposed may be corrected by optimizing the highlights and lowlights captured to more accurately represent the actual scene. Mode. Select the HDR setting in the menu as described Press the button in Playback mode to enter the Display previously. Setup menu Press the Left and Right button to find pictures you want to optimize and then select Confirm to perform HDR optimization or select Return to go back to Playback menu. Refer to the following sections for more details on every. After HDR optimizing the image will be saved as another setting. file with the icon as a prompt the original file will still remain in the memory. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSlideshow Wallpaper Settings This setting allows you to view all the stored pictures as a Use this setting to use your favorite picture as a background slideshow. on the LCD screen Select Slide Show menu then press the or Right button. Press the Down button to select the Wallpaper Settings menu. to enter the slide show setup interface Press the Up Down button to select effect interval repeat or music and press the or Right button to enter and adjust the settings. press the button to confirm the settings Press the or Right button to enter the wallpaper setup interface Use the Up Down navigation buttons and select Start to run the slideshow or Cancel to return to the Playback menu Press the button to confirm the setting. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineWallpaper Menu Welcome wallpaper Use the Up Down button to select the Wallpaper Menu option Use the Up Down button to select Welcome wallpaper then then press the button to confirm the setting or press the press to confirm the setting or press the Left button to Left button to return to last page and press to exit the return to the last page and press to exit the menu. menu. User User GE logo Nature Sparkling Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSet back to defaults Use the Up Down button and select Set back to defaults then press to confirm or press the Left button to return to last page and press to exit the menu. Yes No Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineSetup Menu. Switch between different functions with the Up Down Mode M button Press the or Right button to enter the submenu. The Setup menu for the camera is available in all modes. Each menu page can be selected by pressing the button and switching between menus with the Left Right button. After selecting a function option you can press the Up button to return to the menu for other Camera Setup pages. Or you can press the Down button to switch to the next menu page. Refer to the following pages for more details about each setting. To adjust the settings. Select the menu page with the function you want to adjust and press the Down button. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineBeep LCD Brightness Use this setting to adjust beep volume shutter button self Use this setting to adjust the brightness of your LCD screen. timer power on and power off tones Select the LCD Brightness setting from the Setup menu as described previously. To change these settings. Select auto or adjust the brightness level using the. Select the Beep setting from the Setup menu as described previously. Left Right button and press the button to confirm the setting Use the Up Down navigation buttons to switch between volume shutter tone key tone self timer tone and power tone options Press the or Right button to enter and Press the Up Down button to adjust volume and change various sounds then Press the button to confirm the setting. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search enginePower Saver LCD off On sec Min Min. This setting allows you to save power and get the maximum possible running time for your battery. Follow the steps below Camera off to turn off the LCD screen and camera automatically after a On Min Min Min. period of inactivity Press the button to confirm Select the Power Save setting from the Setup menu as described previously. Date Time. Press the Up Down button to select either screen power or See Setting the Date and Time section on page. camera power then press the or Right button to enter. Zone The Zone setting is a useful function on your overseas trips. This feature enables you to display the local time on the LCD screen while you are overseas Select the Zone setting from the Setup menu as described previously. The world time screen will appear Use the Up Down navigation buttons to switch between the hometown and travel destination fields Use the Left Right navigation buttons to select a city close to the desired time zone. Then press the button to confirm Press the Up Down button to adjust the selected item. Both items have the following options Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineFile and Software Format Memory Please note formatting enables you to delete all contents in the memory card and built in memory including protected photo and movie files. To use this setting. Select Format Memory in the File and Software menu Use the Up Down navigation buttons to select Yes or No. Then press the button to confirm. Language See Setting the Language section on page Select Yes and the camera will format the selected media Please note that when you perform the Format Memory function it only formats the active memory. If a memory card is inserted the memory card is active and will be formatted. If there is no memory card the internal memory is active and the internal memory will be formatted. Formatting the memory card will not automatically format the internal memory. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineCopy to Card Copy internal memory to memory File Numbering card After you take a picture or video clip the camera will save it Use this setting to copy the files stored in the internal memory and assign it a sequential number. You can use this feature to the memory card. to reset the file numbering to. When more than images are in the memory card the use of this features will have no. Select Copy to memory card in the File Software menu effect. page and press the or Right button Select file Numbering in the File Software menu page. Use the Up Down navigation buttons to select Yes or No. then press the or right button. Then press the button to confirm Use the Up Down navigation buttons to select Yes or No. Then press the button to confirm. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineReset Settings FW Version Firmware Version Use this setting to restore the camera to its default settings. Use this setting to view the camera s firmware version Select Reset Settings in the File Software menu page and. Select FW Version in the File Software menu. press the or Right button If you have uploaded the latest firmware version to your SD card upgrade accordingly as necessary Use the Up Down navigation buttons to select Yes or No. Then press the button to confirm. To update to the latest firmware version you can go to the following website www.ge.com digitalcameras and look under Support. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineTransmission Video System Use this setting to configure your video system to your current The video output signal can be switched to NTSC or PAL to area. accommodate different regional standards. The appropriate setting will vary between regions Select Video System in the Transmission menu Use the Up Down navigation buttons to select NTSC or NTSC USA Canada Taiwan Japan etc. PAL. Then press the button to confirm. PAL Europe Asia excluding Taiwan Oceania etc. Note The TV output will not perform properly if an incorrect video system is selected. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineConnecting to a PC Use the USB cable supplied with your camera to copy transfer Transferring Files to Your PC pictures to a computer. The computer will automatically detect the camera as a Setting the USB Mode removable drive. Double click the My Computer icon on the desktop to locate the removable drive and to copy the folders Since the camera s USB port can be set to connect with either and files in the drive to a directory on your PC as you would a PC or a Printer the following steps will ensure that the copy any other folder or file. camera is correctly configured to connect with a PC. The USB mode is set to PC by default. By using the USB cable you can transfer the captured photos. Enter the camera setup menu and select USB Mode with and videos to a PC. Follow the steps below to connect the the Up Down button then press the or Right button to camera to a PC. enter Make sure both the camera and PC are turned on Use the Up Down navigation buttons and select PC Connect one end of the supplied USB cable to the USB AV OUT port on your camera Press the button to confirm the setting Connect the other end of the cable to an available USB port on your PC. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineWindows operating system Windows Windows XP Windows Vista Windows. Click the Safely remove the hardware icon and remove the USB connector according to the displayed menu Disconnect the camera once the transfer is completed. If the USB option is set to PC Turn the camera off and disconnect the USB cable. Macintosh Drag the untitled icon to the Trash. Untitled If the USB option is set to PC PTP Remove the camera from the system as described below before turning the camera off and disconnecting the USB cable. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineConnecting to a PictBridge Compatible Printer PictBridge allows printing images from a. Press the button to confirm the setting. memory card in a digital camera directly to a printer regardless of brand. To find out if a printer is PictBridge compatible simply look for the PictBridge logo on the packaging or check the printer manual. With the PictBridge function on your camera you can print the captured photos directly with a PictBridge compatible printer using the supplied USB cable without the need for a PC. Setting the USB Mode Since the camera s USB port can be set to connect with either a PC or a Printer the following steps will ensure that the camera is correctly configured to connect with a Printer. After the camera is reset it will switch to PC mode. Enter the camera setup menu to select USB Mode with the automatically from USB mode. Up Down button then press the or Right button to enter Use the Up Down button to select Printer. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineConnecting the Camera and Printer. If the camera is not connected to a PictBridge compatible printer the following error message will appear on the LCD. Make sure both the camera and printer are turned on. screen Connect one end of the supplied USB cable to the USB AV Out Port port on your camera Connect the other end of the cable to the USB port on the printer. The above error message would also appear if the USB mode were set incorrectly in which case you should disconnect the USB cable check the USB mode settings ensure that the Printer is turned on and then try connecting the USB cable again. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineUsing the PictBridge Menu After setting the USB mode to Printer the PictBridge menu Print with Date will appear If you have set the date and time of your camera the date and time will be recorded and saved with each photo you take Select Print with date from the PictBridge menu. The following screen will appear Press the Up Down button to select a menu item then Press the or Right button to enter this item. Refer to the following sections for more detailed information on each setting Use the Left Right navigation buttons to scroll through the photos. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine. Use the Up Down navigation buttons to select the Print without Date number of prints for the photo currently displayed. Use this setting to print the photos without dates on them Press the button and the following screen will appear. Select Print without date from the PictBridge menu. The following screen will appear. Select Yes to confirm the printing or Cancel. Then press the button Use the Left Right navigation buttons to scroll through the images Use the Up Down navigation buttons to select the number of prints for the image currently displayed Press the button and the following screen will appear Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine. Select Yes to confirm the print setting or Cancel. Then. Select Yes to confirm the print setting or Cancel. Then press the button. press the button. Print Index You can use this setting to print all indexes to show all photos currently in your camera Select Print index from the PictBridge menu. The following screen will appear Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search enginePrint DPOF Digital Print Order Format Exit To use DPOF printing you must select the photos for printing To exit the PictBridge menu select Exit. The Remove USB using the DPOF settings before hand. see the DPOF section cable message will be displayed. on page Select Print DPOF from the PictBridge menu. The fol lowing screen will appear Disconnect the USB cable from the camera and printer Select Yes to confirm the print setting or Cancel. Then press the button. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAPPENDICES Specifications Design and specifications are subject to change without notice. Effective Image Sensor Pixels. Megapixels Image Sensor. Megapixels. CCD Focal Length F. mm Wide. mm Tele mm film equivalent mm Wide mm Tele F number F. Wide F. Tele Lens Construction elements in groups Optical Zoom X Normal Wide cm Tele cm Focusing Range Macro Wide cm Anti Handshake DIS Digital Zoom X digital zoom Combined Zoom X Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineStill Image MP MP MP MP MP MP. MP Number of Recording x pixels fps fps x pixels fps fps Pixels Movie x pixels fps fps Image Compression Best Fine Normal DCF DPOF Ver. Support Yes Still Image Exif. JPEG File Format Movie MPEG MOV Audio G. Monaural Auto Manual Auto Scene Scene Sport Indoor Snow Fireworks Museum Night Landscape Children Leaf Sunset Glass Landscape Night Portrait Beach Shooting Modes Text Gathering ID Fish eye Travel shooting Photo frame Sketch Portrait Panorama Video Smile Detection Yes Blink Detection Yes Face Detection Yes Red eye Removal Yes Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search enginePan Capture Panorama Yes. inch pixels LTPS low temperature polycrystalline silicon TFT color LCD Display LCD ISO Sensitivity Auto ISO AF Method Single AF Multi AF TTL point AF Assist Light On Off Artificial Intelligence AE AiAE Center weighted Average Spot Fixed to center of Light Metering Method frame Exposure Control Method ProgramAE AE lock available Exposure Compensation EV in Step increments Shutter Speed second Manual s Single Photo Index thumbnails Slide Show Movie Slow Motion possible Playback Modes Zoom Approx. X X Audio Histogram Display Auto AWB Daylight Cloudy Fluorescent Fluorescent CWF Incandescent White Balance Control Manual Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineAuto Red Eye Reduction Forced Flash No Flash Slow Synchro Red Eye Internal Flash Shooting Range Reduction Slow Synchro Shooting Range Wide Approx m. m Tele Approx m. m Internal Memory MB Recording Media SD Card SDHC Card Up to GB support Other Features PictBridge ExifPrint Support Multi language Sup port Jacks USB. pin Macro USB AV OUT Power Rechargeable Lithium ion Battery GB. V mAh Shooting Capability Battery Performance Approx. shots based on CIPA Standards Operation Environment Temperature oC Humidity Dimensions W x H x D. mm x. mm x mm Mass Approx. g Body only Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineError messages Messages Explanation Card error The memory card is not formatted. Card full The memory card is full and cannot store any new images. The picture was not captured correctly. Picture error The picture is damaged. No picture There are no images in the memory card or in the internal memory. Lens error The lens is probably stuck and the camera will power off automatically. System error Unexpected error encountered. Write protect The write protection switch in the memory card is set to the LOCK position. When pictures were taken in Panorama mode the direction of movement was Out of the range incorrect or the angle was outside the range of the internal settings. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineMessages Explanation Card is not formatted format? Confirm whether the memory card should be formatted. This image cannot be deleted The picture or video you are trying to delete is protected. Warning!! Camera recording please wait. No other actions allowed to perform during video audio recording. Warning!! Battery exhausted. The battery is out of charge. This file cannot be played back The picture format cannot be recognized by the camera. No connection The camera is not connected to the printer correctly. Print error There is a problem with camera or printer. Check that the printer is out of paper or out of ink. Cannot print Check if the printer has a paper jam. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineTroubleshooting Problem Possible causes Solution The battery has run out of charge. Camera does not turn on. Replace with a fully charged battery. The battery is not inserted correctly. Camera turns off suddenly during The battery has run out of charge. Replace with a fully charged battery. operation. The lens is dirty. Use a soft cloth to clean the lens on your camera. The picture is blurred. appears when taking pictures. Use the Image Stabilization mode. Replace the memory card with a new one. Images and video files cannot be The memory card is full. Delete unwanted images. saved. Unlock the memory card. Replace the memory card with a new one or The memory card is full. format the current memory card. No picture is taken when pressing No available space to store the files. the Shutter button. Delete unwanted images. The mode dial is in Playback mode. Unlock the memory card. Check the connection between the camera and The camera is not connected to the printer. printer correctly. Use a PictBridge compatible printer. Images cannot print from the con The printer is not PictBridge compatible. nected printer. Load some paper in the printer. The printer is out of paper or out of ink. Replace the ink cartridge in the printer. The paper is jammed. Remove the jammed paper. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engineProblem Possible causes Solution Recording HD movies to memory Use a memory card that is designated SDHC Write to memory card slowly cards with ratings below Class and make sure that the card is formatted with may result in sluggish performance. your camera before using it. Memory card is in write protection state. When shooting or recording write protection interruption phenomenon Please replace a memory card. Cannot write to the memory card in the memory card such as caused Please shoot again. by too slow storage etc. means that you can not continue to shoot or record. The number of pictures or binders Delete needless files. in the memory card exceeded the Too many movies to process Transfer the files in the memory card to other specifications so the playback of area. data folder can not be displayed. Yes is selected for File No menu Exceed maximum folder number in Delete needless files. in the Menu see P for detailed the memory card Set No for File No instructions. Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search enginehttp www.ge.com digitalcameras General Imaging Company Printed in China Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine