Pictorial index Search by illustration For safety Make sure to read through them and security Instrument How to read the gauges and meters the variety of cluster warning lights and indicators etc. Operation of Opening and closing the doors and windows each adjustment before driving etc. component Driving Operations and advice which are necessary for driving Interior features Usage of the interior features etc. Maintenance Caring for your vehicle and maintenance procedures and care When trouble What to do in case of malfunction or emergency arises Vehicle Vehicle specifications customizable features etc. specifications Search by symptom Index Search alphabetically CAMRY HV EE TABLE OF CONTENTS For your information Instrument cluster Reading this manual How to search Pictorial index. Instrument cluster Warning lights and For safety and security indicators Gauges and meters Multi information. For safe use display Before driving Head up display For safe driving Energy monitor Seat belts consumption screen SRS airbags Airbag manual on off system Exhaust gas precautions. Child safety Riding with children Child restraint systems. Emergency assistance eCall. Hybrid system Hybrid system features Hybrid system precautions. Theft deterrent system Immobilizer system Alarm CAMRY HV EE Operation of each Driving component. Key information. Before driving Keys Driving the vehicle. Opening closing and Cargo and luggage locking the doors Trailer towing Doors. Driving procedures Trunk Power ignition switch Smart entry start EV drive mode system Hybrid transmission. Adjusting the seats Turn signal lever Front seats Parking brake Rear seats Brake Hold Head restraints. Operating the lights. Adjusting the steering and wipers wheel and mirrors Headlight switch Steering wheel Automatic High Beam Inside rear view mirror Fog light switch Outside rear view Windshield wipers and mirrors washer. Opening and closing. Refueling the windows Opening the fuel tank Power windows cap CAMRY HV EE TABLE OF CONTENTS. Using the driving support systems Interior features Toyota Safety Sense PCS. Using the air Pre Collision System conditioning system LDA and defogger Lane Departure Alert Automatic air with steering control conditioning system RSA Seat heaters Road Sign Assist. Using the interior lights Dynamic radar cruise Interior lights list control with full speed range cid Interior lights Driving assist systems cid Personal lights BSM cid Rear seat center Blind Spot Monitor armrest light cid BSM function. Using the storage features cid RCTA function List of storage features Toyota parking assist sensor cid Glove box Intelligent Clearance cid Console box Sonar ICS cid Coin holder Driving mode select cid Bottle holders switches cid Cup holders. Driving tips cid Auxiliary boxes Hybrid vehicle driving cid Open tray tips Trunk features Winter driving tips CAMRY HV EE. Other interior features Maintenance and care Other interior features cid Sun visors cid Vanity mirrors. Maintenance and care cid Power outlet Cleaning and protecting the vehicle exterior cid USB charging ports Cleaning and protecting cid Wireless charger the vehicle interior cid Armrest. Maintenance cid Rear sunshade Maintenance cid Rear door requirements sunshades. Do it yourself cid Assist grips maintenance cid Coat hooks Do it yourself service precautions Hood Positioning a floor jack Engine compartment volt battery Tires Tire inflation pressure Wheels Air conditioning filter Cleaning the hybrid battery traction battery air intake vent and filter Electronic key battery Checking and replacing fuses Light bulbs CAMRY HV EE TABLE OF CONTENTS When trouble arises Vehicle specifications. Essential information. Specifications Emergency flashers Maintenance data If your vehicle has to be fuel oil level etc. stopped in an Fuel information emergency. Customization If the vehicle is trapped in Customizable features rising water. Items to initialize. Steps to take in an Items to initialize emergency If your vehicle needs to be towed If you think something is wrong If a warning light turns on or a warning buzzer sounds If a warning message is displayed If you have a flat tire vehicles with an emergency tire puncture repair kit If you have a flat tire vehicles with a spare tire If the hybrid system will not start If the electronic key does not operate properly If the vehicle volt battery is discharged If your vehicle overheats If the vehicle becomes stuck CAMRY HV EE Index What to do if Troubleshooting Alphabetical index Refer to the Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual for information regarding the equipment listed below. cid Navigation system cid Toyota parking assist monitor cid Audio visual system Toyota Motor Europe NV SA Avenue du Bourget Brussels Belgium www.toyota europe.com CAMRY HV EE For your information Main Owner s Manual Please note that this manual applies to all models and explains all equipment including options. Therefore you may find some explanations for equipment not installed on your vehicle. All specifications provided in this manual are current at the time of printing. However because of the Toyota policy of continual product improvement we reserve the right to make changes at any time without notice. Depending on specifications the vehicle shown in the illustrations may differ from your vehicle in terms of equipment. Accessories spare parts and modification of your Toyota A wide variety of non genuine spare parts and accessories for Toyota vehi cles are currently available in the market. Using these spare parts and acces sories which are not genuine Toyota products may adversely affect the safety of your vehicle even though these parts may be approved by certain authori ties in your country. Toyota Motor Corporation therefore cannot accept any liability or guarantee spare parts and accessories which are not genuine Toyota products nor for replacement or installation involving such parts. This vehicle should not be modified with non genuine Toyota products. Modi fication with non genuine Toyota products could affect its performance safety or durability and may even violate governmental regulations. In addition damage or performance problems resulting from the modification may not be covered under warranty. CAMRY HV EE Installation of an RF transmitter system The installation of an RF transmitter system in your vehicle could affect elec tronic systems such as Hybrid system Multiport fuel injection system sequential multiport fuel injection system Toyota Safety Sense Anti lock brake system SRS airbag system Seat belt pretensioner system Be sure to check with any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer for precautionary measures or special instructions regarding installation of an RF transmitter system. Further information regarding frequency bands power levels antenna posi tions and installation provisions for the installation of RF transmitters is avail able on request at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. High voltage parts and cables on the hybrid vehicles emit approximately the same amount of electromagnetic waves as the conventional gasoline pow ered vehicles or home electronic appliances despite of their electromagnetic shielding. Unwanted noise may occur in the reception of the radio frequency transmitter RF transmitter. CAMRY HV EE Vehicle data recordings The vehicle is equipped with sophisticated computers that will record certain data such as The recorded data varies according to the vehicle grade level and options with which it is equipped. These computers do not record conversations or sounds and only record images outside of the vehicle in certain situations. cid Engine speed Electric motor speed traction motor speed cid Accelerator status cid Brake status cid Vehicle speed cid Operation status of the driving assist systems such as the ABS and pre collision system Data usage Toyota may use the data recorded in this computer to diagnose malfunctions conduct research and development and improve quality. Toyota will not disclose the recorded data to a third party except cid With the consent of the vehicle owner or with the consent of the lessee if the vehicle is leased cid In response to an official request by the police a court of law or a govern ment agency cid For use by Toyota in a lawsuit cid For research purposes where the data is not tied to a specific vehicle or vehicle owner CAMRY HV EE Event data recorder This vehicle is equipped with an event data recorder EDR. The main pur pose of an EDR is to record in certain crash or near crash like situations such as an airbag deployment or hitting a road obstacle data that will assist in understanding how a vehicle s systems performed. The EDR is designed to record data related to vehicle dynamics and safety systems for a short period of time typically seconds or less. However data may not be recorded depending on the severity and type of a crash. The EDR in this vehicle is designed to record such data as cid How various systems in your vehicle were operating cid How far if at all the driver was depressing the accelerator and or brake pedal and cid How fast the vehicle was traveling. These data can help provide a better understanding of the circumstances in which crashes and injuries occur. NOTE EDR data are recorded by your vehicle only if a non trivial crash situ ation occurs no data are recorded by the EDR under normal driving condi tions and no personal data e.g. name gender age and crash location are recorded. However other parties such as law enforcement could combine the EDR data with the type of personally identifying data routinely acquired during a crash investigation. To read data recorded by an EDR special equipment is required and access to the vehicle or the EDR is needed. In addition to the vehicle manufacturer other parties such as law enforcement that have the special equipment can read the information if they have access to the vehicle or the EDR. Disclosure of the EDR data Toyota will not disclose the data recorded in an EDR to a third party except when cid An agreement from the vehicle s owner or the lessee for a leased vehi cle is obtained cid In response to an official request by the police a court of law or a govern ment agency cid For use by Toyota in a lawsuit However if necessary Toyota may cid Use the data for research on vehicle safety performance cid Disclose the data to a third party for research purposes without disclosing information about the specific vehicle or vehicle owner CAMRY HV EE Scrapping of your Toyota The SRS airbag and seat belt pretensioner devices in your Toyota contain explosive chemicals. If the vehicle is scrapped with the airbags and seat belt pretensioners left as they are this may cause an accident such as fire. Be sure to have the systems of the SRS airbag and seat belt pretensioner removed and disposed of by a qualified service shop or by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer before you scrap your vehicle. WARNING General precautions while driving Driving under the influence Never drive your vehicle when under the influ ence of alcohol or drugs that have impaired your ability to operate your vehi cle. Alcohol and certain drugs delay reaction time impair judgment and reduce coordination which could lead to an accident that could result in death or serious injury. Defensive driving Always drive defensively. Anticipate mistakes that other drivers or pedestrians might make and be ready to avoid accidents. Driver distraction Always give your full attention to driving. Anything that distracts the driver such as adjusting controls talking on a cellular phone or reading can result in a collision with resulting death or serious injury to you your occupants or others. General precaution regarding children s safety Never leave children unattended in the vehicle and never allow children to have or use the key. Children may be able to start the vehicle or shift the vehicle into neutral. There is also a danger that children may injure themselves by playing with the windows or other features of the vehicle. In addition heat build up or extremely cold temperatures inside the vehicle can be fatal to children. CAMRY HV EE CAMRY HV EE Reading this manual WARNING Explains something that if not obeyed could cause death or serious injury to people. NOTICE Explains something that if not obeyed could cause damage to or a malfunction in the vehicle or its equipment. Indicates operating or working procedures. Follow the steps in numerical order. Indicates the action push ing turning etc. used to operate switches and other devices. Indicates the outcome of an operation e.g. a lid opens. Indicates the component or position being explained. Means Do not Do not do this or Do not let this hap pen. CAMRY HV EE How to search Searching by name cid Alphabetical index P. Searching by installation position cid Pictorial index P. Searching by symptom or sound cid What to do if Troubleshooting P. Searching by title cid Table of contents P. CAMRY HV EE Pictorial index Pictorial index Exterior Doors P. Locking unlocking P. Opening closing the side windows P. Locking unlocking by using the mechanical key P. Trunk P. Opening from inside P. Opening from outside P. Outside rear view mirrors P. Adjusting the mirror angle P. Folding the mirrors P. Defogging the mirrors P. CAMRY HV EEPictorial index Windshield wipers P. Precautions for winter season P. Precautions for car wash P. Fuel filler door P. Refueling method P. Fuel type fuel tank capacity P. Tires P. Tire size inflation pressure P. Winter tires tire chains P. Checking rotation tire pressure warning system P. Coping with flat tires P. Hood P. Opening P. Engine oil P. Coping with overheat P. Light bulbs of the exterior lights for driving Replacing method P. Watts P. Headlights front turn signal lights front position lights daytime running lights P. Front fog lights P. Side turn signal lights P. Rear turn signal lights rear side marker lights tail lights stoplights P. Tail lights P. Back up lights Shifting the shift lever to R P. Rear fog light P. License plate lights P. If equipped CAMRY HV EE Pictorial index Instrument panel left hand drive vehicles Power switch P. Starting the hybrid system changing the modes P. Emergency stop of the hybrid system P. When the hybrid system will not start P. Shift lever P. Changing the shift position P. Precautions for towing P. When the shift lever does not move P. Meters P. Reading the meters adjusting the instrument panel lights P. Warning lights indicator lights P. When a warning light comes on P. Multi information display P. Display P. When the warning messages are displayed P. CAMRY HV EEPictorial index Turn signal lever P. Headlight switch P. Headlights front position lights tail lights rear side marker lights license plate lights daytime running lights P. Front fog lights rear fog light P. Windshield wiper and washer switch P. Usage P. Adding washer fluid P. Headlight cleaners P. Emergency flasher switch P. Hood lock release lever P. Tilt and telescopic steering control lever P. Tilt and telescopic steering control switch P. Adjustment P. Air conditioning system P. Usage P. Rear window defogger P. Audio visual system Clock If equipped Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. CAMRY HV EE Pictorial index Switches left hand drive vehicles Automatic High Beam switch P. VSC OFF switch P. Trunk opener switch P. Fuel filler door opener switch P. ODO TRIP switch P. Instrument panel light control switch P. Outside rear view mirror switches P. Door lock switches P. Power window switches P. Window lock switch P. CAMRY HV EEPictorial index Meter control switches P. Vehicle to vehicle distance switch P. Cruise control switches Dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range P. Audio remote control switches LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control switch P. Telephone switch Talk switch Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. CAMRY HV EE Pictorial index Wireless charger switch P. Seat heater switches P. Parking brake P. Applying releasing P. Precautions for winter season P. Warning light warning buzzer warning message P. EV drive mode switch P. Brake hold switch P. Driving mode select switches P. CAMRY HV EEPictorial index Interior left hand drive vehicles SRS airbags P. Floor mat P. Front seats P. Head restraints P. Seat belts P. Console box P. Inside lock buttons P. Cup holders P. Rear seats P. Assist grips P. Rear control panel Rear seat position P. Rear air conditioner P. Rear sunshade P. Audio visual system If equipped Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. CAMRY HV EE Pictorial index Interior lights personal lights P. SOS button P. Vanity mirrors P. Sun visors P. Inside rear view mirror P. The illustration shows the front but they may also be equipped in the rear. If equipped NEVER use a rearward facing child restraint on a seat protected by an ACTIVE AIRBAG in front of it DEATH or SERIOUS INJURY to the CHILD can occur. P. CAMRY HV EEPictorial index Instrument panel right hand drive vehicles Power switch P. Starting the hybrid system changing the modes P. Emergency stop of the hybrid system P. When the hybrid system will not start P. Shift lever P. Changing the shift position P. Precautions for towing P. When the shift lever does not move P. Meters P. Reading the meters adjusting the instrument panel lights P. Warning lights indicator lights P. When a warning light comes on P. Multi information display P. Display P. When the warning messages are displayed P. CAMRY HV EE Pictorial index Turn signal lever P. Headlight switch P. Headlights front position lights tail lights rear side marker lights license plate lights daytime running lights P. Front fog lights rear fog light P. Windshield wiper and washer switch P. Usage P. Adding washer fluid P. Headlight cleaners P. Emergency flasher switch P. Hood lock release lever P. Tilt and telescopic steering control lever P. Tilt and telescopic steering control switch P. Adjustment P. Air conditioning system P. Usage P. Rear window defogger P. Audio visual system Clock If equipped Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. CAMRY HV EEPictorial index Switches right hand drive vehicles Fuel filler door opener switch P. Trunk opener switch P. VSC OFF switch P. Automatic High Beam switch P. ODO TRIP switch P. Instrument panel light control switch P. Outside rear view mirror switches P. Door lock switches P. Power window switches P. Window lock switch P. CAMRY HV EE Pictorial index Meter control switches P. Vehicle to vehicle distance switch P. Cruise control switches Dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range P. Audio remote control switches LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control switch P. Telephone switch Talk switch CAMRY HV EEPictorial index Wireless charger switch P. Driving mode select switches P. Brake hold switch P. Parking brake P. Applying releasing P. Precautions for winter season P. Warning light warning buzzer warning message P. EV drive mode switch P. Seat heater switches P. Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. If equipped CAMRY HV EE Pictorial index Interior right hand drive vehicles SRS airbags P. Floor mats P. Front seats P. Head restraints P. Seat belts P. Console box P. Inside lock buttons P. Cup holders P. Rear seats P. Assist grips P. CAMRY HV EEPictorial index Interior lights personal lights P. SOS button P. Vanity mirrors P. Sun visors P. Inside rear view mirror P. The illustration shows the front but they may also be equipped in the rear. NEVER use a rearward facing child restraint on a seat protected by an ACTIVE AIRBAG in front of it DEATH or SERIOUS INJURY to the CHILD can occur. P. CAMRY HV EE Pictorial index CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use Before driving For safe driving Seat belts SRS airbags Airbag manual on off system Exhaust gas precautions. Child safety Riding with children Child restraint systems. Emergency assistance eCall. Hybrid system Hybrid system features Hybrid system precautions. Theft deterrent system Immobilizer system Alarm CAMRY HV EE. For safe use Before driving Floor mat Use only floor mats designed specifically for vehicles of the same model and model year as your vehicle. Fix them securely in place onto the carpet. Insert the retaining hooks clips into the floor mat eyelets. Turn the upper knob of each retaining hook clip to secure the floor mats in place. Always align the marks. The shape of the retaining hooks clips may differ from that shown in the illustration. CAMRY HV EE. For safe use WARNING Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may cause the driver s floor mat to slip possibly interfering with the pedals while driving. An unexpectedly high speed may result or it may become difficult to stop the vehicle. This could lead to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. When installing the driver s floor mat Do not use floor mats designed for other models or different model year vehicles even if they are Toyota Genuine floor mats. Only use floor mats designed for the driver s seat. Always install the floor mat securely using the retaining hooks clips pro vided. Do not use two or more floor mats on top of each other. Do not place the floor mat bottom side up or upside down. Before driving Check that the floor mat is securely fixed in the correct place with all the provided retaining hooks clips. Be especially careful to perform this check after cleaning the floor. With the hybrid system stopped and the shift lever in P fully depress each pedal to the floor to make sure it does not interfere with the floor mat. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use For safe driving For safe driving adjust the seat and mirror to an appropriate position before driving. Correct driving posture Adjust the angle of the seatback so that you are sitting straight up and so that you do not have to lean forward to steer. P. Adjust the seat so that you can depress the pedals fully and so that your arms bend slightly at the elbow when gripping the steering wheel. P. Lock the head restraint in place with the center of the head restraint closest to the top of your ears. P. Wear the seat belt correctly. P. Correct use of the seat belts Make sure that all occupants are wearing their seat belts before driv ing the vehicle. P. Use a child restraint system appropriate for the child until the child becomes large enough to properly wear the vehicle s seat belt. P. CAMRY HV EE. For safe use Adjusting the mirrors Make sure that you can see backward clearly by adjusting the inside and outside rear view mirrors properly. P. WARNING Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. Do not adjust the position of the driver s seat while driving. Doing so could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. Do not place a cushion between the driver or passenger and the seatback. A cushion may prevent correct posture from being achieved and reduce the effectiveness of the seat belt and head restraint. Do not place anything under the front seats. Objects placed under the front seats may become jammed in the seat tracks and stop the seat from locking in place. This may lead to an acci dent and the adjustment mechanism may also be damaged. Always observe the legal speed limit when driving on public roads. When driving over long distances take regular breaks before you start to feel tired. Also if you feel tired or sleepy while driving do not force yourself to con tinue driving and take a break immediately. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use Seat belts Make sure that all occupants are wearing their seat belts before driving the vehicle. Correct use of the seat belts Extend the shoulder belt so that it comes fully over the shoulder but does not come into contact with the neck or slide off the shoulder. Position the lap belt as low as possible over the hips. Adjust the position of the seatback. Sit up straight and well back in the seat. Do not twist the seat belt. Fastening and releasing the seat belt To fasten the seat belt push the plate into the buckle until a click sound is heard. To release the seat belt press the release button. Release button CAMRY HV EE. For safe use Adjusting the seat belt shoulder anchor height front seats Push the seat belt shoulder Release button anchor down while pressing the release button. Push the seat belt shoulder anchor up. Move the height adjuster up and down as needed until you hear a click. Seat belt pretensioners front and outboard rear seats The pretensioners help the seat belts to quickly restrain the occu pants by retracting the seat belts when the vehicle is subjected to certain types of severe frontal or side collision. The pretensioners do not activate in the event of a minor frontal impact a minor side impact a rear impact or a vehicle rollover. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use Emergency locking retractor ELR The retractor will lock the belt during a sudden stop or on impact. It may also lock if you lean forward too quickly. A slow easy motion will allow the belt to extend so that you can move around fully. Child seat belt usage The seat belts of your vehicle were principally designed for persons of adult size. Use a child restraint system appropriate for the child until the child becomes large enough to properly wear the vehicle s seat belt. P. When the child becomes large enough to properly wear the vehicle s seat belt follow the instructions regarding seat belt usage. P. Replacing the belt after the pretensioner has been activated If the vehicle is involved in multiple collisions the pretensioner will activate for the first collision but will not activate for the second or subsequent collisions. Seat belt regulations If seat belt regulations exist in the country where you reside please contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer for seat belt replacement or installation. Rear seat belt Use the seat belt after passing it through the guide if the seat belt comes free from the guide. CAMRY HV EE. For safe use WARNING Observe the following precautions to reduce the risk of injury in the event of sudden braking sudden swerving or an accident. Failure to do so may cause death or serious injury. Wearing a seat belt Ensure that all passengers wear a seat belt. Always wear a seat belt properly. Each seat belt should be used by one person only. Do not use a seat belt for more than one person at once including children. Toyota recommends that children be seated in the rear seat and always use a seat belt and or an appropriate child restraint system. To achieve a proper seating position do not recline the seat more than necessary. The seat belt is most effective when the occupants are sitting up straight and well back in the seats. Do not wear the shoulder belt under your arm. Always wear your seat belt low and snug across your hips. Pregnant women Obtain medical advice and wear the seat belt in the proper way. P. Women who are pregnant should posi tion the lap belt as low as possible over the hips in the same manner as other occupants extending the shoulder belt completely over the shoulder and avoid ing belt contact with the rounding of the abdominal area. If the seat belt is not worn properly not only the pregnant woman but also the fetus could suffer death or serious injury as a result of sudden braking or a colli sion. People suffering illness Obtain medical advice and wear the seat belt in the proper way. P. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use WARNING When children are in the vehicle P. Seat belt pretensioners If the pretensioner has activated the SRS warning light will come on. In that case the seat belt cannot be used again and must be replaced at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Adjustable shoulder anchor Always make sure the shoulder belt is positioned across the center of your shoulder. The belt should be kept away from your neck but not falling off your shoulder. Failure to do so could reduce the amount of protection in an accident and cause death or serious injuries in the event of a sudden stop sudden swerve or accident. P. Seat belt damage and wear Do not damage the seat belts by allowing the belt plate or buckle to be jammed in the door. Inspect the seat belt system periodically. Check for cuts fraying and loose parts. Do not use a damaged seat belt until it is replaced. Damaged seat belts cannot protect an occupant from death or serious injury. Ensure that the belt and plate are locked and the belt is not twisted. If the seat belt does not function correctly immediately contact any autho rized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Replace the seat assembly including the belts if your vehicle has been involved in a serious accident even if there is no obvious damage. Do not attempt to install remove modify disassemble or dispose of the seat belts. Have any necessary repairs carried out by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Inap propriate handling may lead to incorrect operation. Always make sure the shoulder belt passes through the guide when using the seat belt. Failure to properly position the belt may reduce the amount of protection in an accident and could lead to death or serious injury in a collision or sudden stop. Always make sure that the seat belt is not twisted does not get caught in the guide or the seatback and is arranged in the proper position. CAMRY HV EE. For safe use SRS airbags The SRS airbags inflate when the vehicle is subjected to certain types of severe impacts that may cause significant injury to the occupants. They work together with the seat belts to help reduce the risk of death or serious injury. SRS front airbags SRS driver airbag front passenger airbag Can help protect the head and chest of the driver and front pas senger from impact with interior components SRS driver s knee airbag Can help provide driver protection SRS side and curtain shield airbags SRS front side airbags Can help protect the torso of the front seat occupants SRS curtain shield airbags Can help protect primarily the head of occupants in the outer seats CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use SRS airbag system components Front impact sensors AIR BAG ON and AIR BAG Driver s knee airbag OFF indicator light if equipped Side impact sensors SRS warning light front door Side impact sensors front Airbag sensor assembly Front passenger airbag Side impact sensors rear Front side airbags Driver airbag Curtain shield airbags Seat belt pretensioners and force limiters Airbag manual on off switch if equipped The main SRS airbag system components are shown above. The SRS airbag system is controlled by the airbag sensor assembly. As the airbags deploy a chemical reaction in the inflators quickly fills the airbags with non toxic gas to help restrain the motion of the occu pants. CAMRY HV EE. For safe use WARNING SRS airbag precautions Observe the following precautions regarding the SRS airbags. Failure to do so may cause death or serious injury. The driver and all passengers in the vehicle must wear their seat belts properly. The SRS airbags are supplemental devices to be used with the seat belts. The SRS driver airbag deploys with considerable force and can cause death or serious injury especially if the driver is very close to the airbag. Since the risk zone for the driver s airbag is the first mm in. of inflation placing yourself mm in. from your driver airbag pro vides you with a clear margin of safety. This distance is measured from the center of the steering wheel to your breastbone. If you sit less than mm in. away now you can change your driving position in sev eral ways cid Move your seat to the rear as far as you can while still reaching the ped als comfortably. cid Slightly recline the back of the seat. Although vehicle designs vary many drivers can achieve the mm in. distance even with the driver seat all the way forward simply by reclining the back of the seat somewhat. If reclining the back of your seat makes it hard to see the road raise yourself by using a firm non slippery cushion or raise the seat if your vehicle has that feature. cid If your steering wheel is adjustable tilt it downward. This points the airbag toward your chest instead of your head and neck. The seat should be adjusted as recommended above while still maintain ing control of the foot pedals steering wheel and your view of the instru ment panel controls. The SRS front passenger airbag also deploys with considerable force and can cause death or serious injury especially if the front passenger is very close to the airbag. The front passenger seat should be as far from the airbag as possible with the seatback adjusted so the front passenger sits upright. Improperly seated and or restrained infants and children can be killed or seriously injured by a deploying airbag. An infant or child who is too small to use a seat belt should be properly secured using a child restraint sys tem. Toyota strongly recommends that all infants and children be placed in the rear seats of the vehicle and properly restrained. The rear seats are safer for infants and children than the front passenger seat. P. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use WARNING SRS airbag precautions Do not sit on the edge of the seat or lean against the dashboard. Do not allow a child to stand in front of the SRS front passenger airbag unit or sit on the knees of a front passenger. Do not allow the front seat occupants to hold items on their knees. Do not lean against the door the roof side rail or the front side and rear pil lars. Do not allow anyone to kneel on the passenger seat toward the door or put their head or hands outside the vehicle. CAMRY HV EE. For safe use WARNING SRS airbag precautions Do not attach anything to or lean any thing against areas such as the dash board steering wheel pad and lower portion of the instrument panel. These items can become projectiles when the SRS driver front passenger and knee airbags deploy. Do not attach anything to areas such as a door windshield windows front or rear pillar roof side rail and assist grip. Except for the speed limit label P. Do not hang coat hangers or other hard objects on the coat hooks. All of these items could become projectiles and may cause death or serious injury should the SRS curtain shield airbags deploy. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use WARNING SRS airbag precautions If a vinyl cover is put on the area where the SRS knee airbag will deploy be sure to remove it. Do not use seat accessories which cover the parts where the SRS side airbags inflate as they may interfere with inflation of the SRS airbags. Such accessories may prevent the side airbags from activating correctly disable the system or cause the side airbags to inflate accidentally result ing in death or serious injury. Do not strike or apply significant levels of force to the area of the SRS airbag components or the front doors. Doing so can cause the SRS airbags to malfunction. Do not touch any of the component parts immediately after the SRS airbags have deployed inflated as they may be hot. If breathing becomes difficult after the SRS airbags have deployed open a door or window to allow fresh air in or leave the vehicle if it is safe to do so. Wash off any residue as soon as possible to prevent skin irritation. If the areas where the SRS airbags are stored such as the steering wheel pad and front and rear pillar garnishes are damaged or cracked have them replaced by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. For safe use WARNING Modification and disposal of SRS airbag system components Do not dispose of your vehicle or perform any of the following modifications without consulting any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. The SRS airbags may malfunction or deploy inflate accidentally causing death or serious injury. Installation removal disassembly and repair of the SRS airbags Repairs modifications removal or replacement of the steering wheel instrument panel dashboard seats or seat upholstery front side and rear pillars roof side rails front door panels front door trims or front door speakers Modifications to the front door panel such as making a hole in it Repairs or modifications of the front fender front bumper or side of the occupant compartment Installation of a grille guard bull bars kangaroo bar etc. snow plows or winches Modifications to the vehicle s suspension system Installation of electronic devices such as mobile two way radios RF trans mitter and CD players CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use If the SRS airbags deploy inflate Slight abrasions burns bruising etc. may be sustained from SRS airbags due to the extremely high speed deployment inflation by hot gases. A loud noise and white powder will be emitted. Parts of the airbag module steering wheel hub airbag cover and inflator as well as the front seats parts of the front and rear pillars and roof side rails may be hot for several minutes. The airbag itself may also be hot. The windshield may crack. The hybrid system will be stopped and fuel supply to the engine will be stopped. P. All of the doors will be unlocked. P. The brakes and stop lights will be controlled automatically. P. Vehicles with eCall If any of the following situations occur the system is designed to send an emergency call to the eCall control center notifying them of the vehicle s location without needing to push the SOS button and an agent will attempt to speak with the occupants to ascertain the level of emergency and assistance required. If the occupants are unable to commu nicate the agent automatically treats the call as an emergency and helps to dispatch the necessary emergency services. P. cid An SRS airbag is deployed. cid A seat belt pretensioner is activated. cid The vehicle is involved in a severe rear end collision. In some cases the call cannot be made. P. SRS airbag deployment conditions SRS front airbags The SRS front airbags will deploy in the event of an impact that exceeds the set threshold level the level of force corresponding to an approximately km h mph frontal collision with a fixed wall that does not move or deform. However this threshold velocity will be considerably higher in the following situations cid If the vehicle strikes an object such as a parked vehicle or sign pole which can move or deform on impact cid If the vehicle is involved in an underride collision such as a collision in which the front of the vehicle underrides or goes under the bed of a truck Depending on the type of collision it is possible that only the seat belt pretensioners will activate. CAMRY HV EE. For safe use SRS airbag deployment conditions SRS side and curtain shield airbags The SRS side and curtain shield airbags will deploy in the event of an impact that exceeds the set threshold level the level of force corresponding to the impact force produced by an approximately kg lb. vehicle colliding with the vehicle cabin from a direction perpendicular to the vehicle orientation at an approximate speed of km h mph. Both SRS curtain shield airbags may also deploy in the event of a severe frontal collision. Conditions under which the SRS airbags may deploy inflate other than a collision The SRS front airbags and SRS curtain shield airbags may also deploy if a serious impact occurs to the underside of your vehicle. Some examples are shown in the illustration. Hitting a curb edge of pavement or hard surface Falling into or jumping over a deep hole Landing hard or falling Types of collisions that may not deploy the SRS airbags SRS front airbags The SRS front airbags do not generally inflate if the vehicle is involved in a side or rear collision if it rolls over or if it is involved in a low speed frontal collision. But whenever a collision of any type causes sufficient forward deceleration of the vehicle deployment of the SRS front airbags may occur. Collision from the side Collision from the rear Vehicle rollover CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use Types of collisions that may not deploy the SRS airbags SRS side and curtain shield airbags The SRS side and curtain shield airbags may not activate if the vehicle is subjected to a collision from the side at certain angles or a collision to the side of the vehicle body other than the passenger compartment. Collision from the side to the vehicle body other than the passenger compart ment Collision from the side at an angle The SRS side airbags do not generally inflate if the vehicle is involved in a frontal or rear collision if it rolls over or if it is involved in a low speed side collision. Collision from the front Collision from the rear Vehicle rollover The SRS curtain shield airbags do not generally inflate if the vehicle is involved in a rear collision if it rolls over or if it is involved in a low speed side or low speed frontal collision. Collision from the rear Vehicle rollover CAMRY HV EE. For safe use When to contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer In the following cases the vehicle will require inspection and or repair. Con tact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reli able repairer as soon as possible. Any of the SRS airbags have been inflated. The front of the vehicle is damaged or deformed or was involved in an acci dent that was not severe enough to cause the SRS front airbags to inflate. A portion of a door or its surrounding area is damaged deformed or has had a hole made in it or the vehicle was involved in an accident that was not severe enough to cause the SRS side and curtain shield airbags to inflate. The pad section of the steering wheel dashboard near the front passenger airbag or lower portion of the instrument panel is scratched cracked or other wise damaged. The surface of the seats with the SRS side airbag is scratched cracked or oth erwise damaged. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use The portion of the front pillars rear pil lars or roof side rail garnishes padding containing the SRS curtain shield airbags inside is scratched cracked or otherwise damaged. CAMRY HV EE. For safe use Airbag manual on off system This system deactivates the front passenger airbag. Only deactivate the airbag when using a child restraint system on the front passenger seat. PASSENGER AIRBAG indica tor The ON indicator light turns on when the airbag system is on and about after seconds it goes off Type A Type B only when the power switch is in ON mode. Airbag manual on off switch If equipped CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use Deactivating the airbags for the front passenger Push the knob. Insert the mechanical key into the cylinder and turn to the OFF position. The OFF indicator light turns on only when the POWER switch is in ON mode. Type A Type B PASSENGER AIRBAG indicator information If any of the following problems occur it is possible that there is a malfunction in the system. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. The OFF indicator does not illuminate when the airbag manual on off switch is set to OFF. The indicator light does not change when the airbag manual on off switch is switched to ON or OFF. CAMRY HV EE. For safe use WARNING When installing a child restraint system For safety reasons always install a child restraint system in a rear seat. In the event that the rear seat cannot be used the front seat can be used as long as the airbag manual on off system is set to OFF. If the airbag manual on off system is left on the strong impact of the airbag deployment inflation may cause serious injury or even death. When a child restraint system is not installed on the front passenger seat Ensure that the airbag manual on off system is set to ON. If it is left off the airbag may not deploy in the event of an accident which may result in serious injury or even death. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. For safe use Exhaust gas precautions Harmful substance to the human body is included in exhaust gases if inhaled. WARNING Exhaust gases include harmful carbon monoxide CO which is colorless and odorless. Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may cause exhaust gases enter the vehicle and may lead to an accident caused by light headedness or may lead to death or a serious health hazard. Important points while driving Keep the trunk lid closed. If you smell exhaust gases in the vehicle even when the trunk lid is closed open the windows and have the vehicle inspected at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer as soon as possible. When parking If the vehicle is in a poorly ventilated area or a closed area such as a garage stop the hybrid system. Do not leave the vehicle with the hybrid system on for a long time. If such a situation cannot be avoided park the vehicle in an open space and ensure that exhaust fumes do not enter the vehicle interior. Do not leave the hybrid system running in an area with snow build up or where it is snowing. If snowbanks build up around the vehicle while the hybrid system is running exhaust gases may collect and enter the vehicle. Exhaust pipe The exhaust system needs to be checked periodically. If there is a hole or crack caused by corrosion damage to a joint or abnormal exhaust noise be sure to have the vehicle inspected and repaired by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Child safety Riding with children Observe the following precautions when children are in the vehi cle. Use a child restraint system appropriate for the child until the child becomes large enough to properly wear the vehicle s seat belt. It is recommended that children sit in the rear seats to avoid acci dental contact with the shift lever wiper switch etc. Use the rear door child protector lock or the window lock switch to avoid children opening the door while driving or operating the power window accidentally. Do not let small children operate equipment which may catch or pinch body parts such as the power window hood trunk seats etc. WARNING Never leave children unattended in the vehicle and never allow children to have or use the key. Children may be able to start the vehicle or shift the vehicle into neutral. There is also a danger that children may injure themselves by playing with the windows or other features of the vehicle. In addition heat build up or extremely cold temperatures inside the vehicle can be fatal to children. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety Child restraint systems Before installing a child restraint system in the vehicle there are precautions that need to be observed different types of child restraint systems as well as installation methods etc. written in this manual. Use a child restraint system when riding with a small child that cannot properly use a seat belt. For the child s safety install the child restraint system to a rear seat. Be sure to follow the installa tion method that is in the operation manual enclosed with the restraint system. The use of a Toyota genuine child restraint system is recom mended as it is safer to use in this vehicle. Toyota genuine child restraint systems are made specifically for Toyota vehicles. They can be purchased at a Toyota dealer. Table of contents Points to remember P. When using a child restraint system P. Child restraint system compatibility for each seating position P. Child restraint system installation method P. cid Fixed with a seat belt P. cid Fixed with an ISOFIX lower anchorage P. cid Using a top tether anchorage P. Points to remember Prioritize and observe the warnings as well as the laws and regula tions for child restraint systems. Use a child restraint system until the child becomes large enough to properly wear the vehicle s seat belt. Choose a child restraint system appropriate to the age and size of the child. Note that not all child restraint systems can fit in all vehicles. Before using or purchasing a child restraint system check the com patibility of the child restraint system with seat positions. P. CAMRY HV EE. Child safety WARNING When a child is riding Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. For effective protection in automobile accidents and sudden stops a child must be properly restrained using a seat belt or child restraint system which is correctly installed. For installation details refer to the operation manual enclosed with the child restraint system. General installation instruction is provided in this manual. Toyota strongly urges the use of a proper child restraint system that con forms to the weight and size of the child installed on the rear seat. Accord ing to accident statistics the child is safer when properly restrained in the rear seat than in the front seat. Holding a child in your or someone else s arms is not a substitute for a child restraint system. In an accident the child can be crushed against the windshield or between the holder and the interior of the vehicle. Handling the child restraint system If the child restraint system is not properly fixed in place the child or other passengers may be seriously injured or even killed in the event of sudden braking sudden swerving or an accident. If the vehicle were to receive a strong impact from an accident etc. it is possible that the child restraint system has damage that is not readily visi ble. In such cases do not reuse the restraint system. Depending on the child restraint system installation may be difficult or impossible. In those cases check whether the child restraint system is suitable for installment in the vehicle. P. Be sure to install and observe the usage rules after carefully reading the child restraint system fixing method in this manual as well as the operation manual enclosed with the child restraint system. Keep the child restraint system properly secured on the seat even if it is not in use. Do not store the child restraint system unsecured in the pas senger compartment. If it is necessary to detach the child restraint system remove it from the vehicle or store it securely in the trunk. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety When using a child restraint system When installing a child restraint system to a front passenger seat For the safety of a child install a child restraint system to a rear seat. When installing a child restraint system to a front passenger seat is unavoidable adjust the seat as follows and install the child restraint system. Move the front seat fully rear ward. If the passenger seat height can be adjusted move it to the upper most position. Adjust the seatback angle to the most upright position. When installing a forward facing child seat if there is a gap between the child seat and the seatback adjust the seatback angle until good contact is achieved. If the head restraint interferes with your child restraint system and the head restraint can be removed remove the head restraint. Otherwise put the head restraint in the upper most position. Not suitable for child restraint systems with support leg. CAMRY HV EE. Child safety WARNING When using a child restraint system Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. Vehicles without airbag manual on off switch Never use a rear facing child restraint system on the front passenger seat. The force of the rapid inflation of the front passenger airbag can cause death or serious injury to children in the event of an accident. Vehicles with airbag manual on off switch Never use a rear facing child restraint system on the front passenger seat when the airbag manual on off switch is on. P. The force of the rapid inflation of the front passenger airbag can cause death or serious injury to children in the event of an accident. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety WARNING When using a child restraint system There is a label s on the passenger side sun visor indicating it is forbidden to attach a rear facing child restraint system to the front passenger seat. Details of the label s are shown in the illustration below. Only put a forward facing child restraint system on the front seat when unavoid able. When installing a forward facing child restraint on the front passenger seat move the seat as far back as pos sible. Failing to do so may result in death or serious injury if the airbags deploy inflate. CAMRY HV EE. Child safety WARNING When using a child restraint system Do not allow the child to lean his her head or any part of his her body against the door or the area of the seat front or rear pillars or roof side rails from which the SRS side airbags or SRS curtain shield airbags deploy even if the child is seated in the child restraint system. It is dangerous if the SRS side airbags and curtain shield airbags inflate and the impact could cause death or serious injury to the child. When a junior seat is installed always ensure that the shoulder belt is positioned across the center of the child s shoulder. The belt should be kept away from the child s neck but not so that it could fall off the child s shoulder. Use child restraint system suitable to the age and size of the child and install it to the rear seat. If the driver s seat interferes with the child restraint system and prevents it from being attached correctly attach the child restraint system to the right hand rear seat left hand drive vehicles or the left hand rear seat right hand drive vehicles. P. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety Child restraint system compatibility for each seating position Child restraint system compatibility for each seating position Compatibility of each seating position with child restraint systems P. displays the type of child restraint systems that can be used and possible seating positions for installation using symbols. Also the recommended child restraint system that is suitable for your child can be selected. Otherwise check Recommended child restraint systems and Com patibility table for recommended child restraint systems. P. Check the selected child restraint system together with the follow ing Before confirming the compatibility of each seating position with child restraint systems. Before confirming the compatibility of each seating position with child restraint systems Checking the child restraint system standards. Use a child restraint system that conforms to UN ECE R or UN ECE R. The following approval mark is displayed on child restraint sys tems which are conformed. Check for an approval mark attached to the child restraint sys tem. Example of the displayed regulation number UN ECE R approval mark The weight range of the child who is applicable for an UN ECE R approval mark is indicated. UN ECE R approval mark The height range of the child who is applicable as well as available weights for an UN ECE R approval mark is indicated. CAMRY HV EE. Child safety UN ECE R and UN ECE R are U.N. regulations for child restraint systems. The child restraint systems mentioned in the table may not be avail able outside of the EU area. The displayed mark may differ depending on the product. Checking the category of the child restraint system. Check the approval mark of the child restraint system for which of the following categories the child restraint system is suitable. Also if there are any uncertainties check the user s guide included with the child restraint system or contact the retailer of the child restraint system. cid universal cid semi universal cid restricted cid vehicle specific CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety Compatibility of each seating position with child restraint sys tems Left hand drive vehicles Right hand drive vehicles CAMRY HV EE. Child safety Suitable for universal category child restraint system fixed with the seat belt. Suitable for child restraint systems given on recom mended child restraint systems and compatibility table P. Suitable for i Size and ISOFIX child restraint system. Includes a top tether anchorage point. Vehicles without airbag manual on off switch Never use a rear facing child restraint system on the front passenger seat. Vehicles with airbag manual on off switch Never use a rear facing child restraint system on the front passenger seat when the airbag manual on off switch is on. Move the front seat fully rearward. If the passenger seat height can be adjusted move it to the upper most position. Adjust the seatback angle to the most upright position. When installing a forward facing child seat if there is a gap between the child seat and the seatback adjust the seatback angle until good contact is achieved. If the head restraint interferes with your child restraint system and the head restraint can be removed remove the head restraint. Otherwise put the head restraint in the upper most position. Vehicles without airbag manual on off switch Use only a front facing child restraint system. Vehicles with airbag manual on off switch Use only a front facing child restraint system when the airbag manual on off switch is on. Not suitable for child restraint systems with support leg. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety Detail information for child restraint systems installation Seating position Seat position Vehicles with number Vehicles airbag without airbag manual manual on off on off switch switch ON OFF Seating position Yes Yes suitable for Forward Forward Yes Yes Yes Yes universal belted facing facing only Yes No only i Size seating No No No Yes No Yes position Yes No Seating position suitable for No No No No No No lateral fixture L L No Suitable rearward R R facing fixture R X R X No No No No R R X R R R R No R R Suitable forward F X F X facing fixture No No No F No F F X F F No F F Suitable junior B B seat fixture No No No No B B B B No ISOFIX child restraint systems are divided into different fixture. The child restraint system can be used in the seating positions for fixture mentioned in the table above. For kind of fixture relation confirm the following table. If your child restraint system has no kind of fixture or if you can not find information in the table below please refer to the child restraint system vehicle list for compatibility information or ask the retailer of your child seat. CAMRY HV EE. Child safety Fixture Description F Full height forward facing child restraint systems F Reduced height forward facing child restraint systems F X Reduced height forward facing child restraint systems R Full size rearward facing child restraint systems R Reduced size rearward facing child restraint systems R X Reduced size rearward facing child restraint systems R Rearward facing infant seat L Left lateral facing carrycot infant seat L Right lateral facing carrycot infant seat B Junior seat B Junior seat CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety Recommended child restraint systems and Compatibility table Seating position Vehicles Recommended Vehicles with Mass groups Child Restraint without airbag System airbag manual manual on off on off switch switch ON OFF G BABY SAFE PLUS No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No G BABY Up SAFE PLUS to kg with SEAT lb. BELT No No No Yes No Yes FIXATION BASE PLATFORM Yes No Yes Yes I DUO PLUS Yes Belt Belt to kg Yes No Yes Yes No Belt fix only fix fix to lb. only only KIDFIX XP No No No Yes No Yes SICT Yes No II III to kg Yes Yes to lb. MAXI PLUS Yes Belt Belt Yes No Yes Yes No Belt fix only fix fix only only CAMRY HV EE. Child safety The child restraint systems mentioned in the table may not be avail able outside the EU area. When securing some types of child restraint systems in rear seat it may not be possible to properly use the seat belts in positions next to the child restraint without interfering with it or affecting seat belt effectiveness. Be sure your seat belt fits snugly across your shoul der and low on your hips. If it does not or if it interferes with the child restraint move to a different position. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. When installing a child restraint in the rear seats adjust the front seat so that it does not interfere with the child or child restraint system. When installing a child seat with support base if the child seat interferes with the seatback when latching it into the support base adjust the seatback rearward until there is no interference. If the seat belt shoulder anchor is ahead of the child seat belt guide move the seat cushion forward. When installing a junior seat if the child in your child restraint system is in a very upright position adjust the seatback angle to the most comfortable position. And if the seat belt shoulder anchor is ahead of the child seat belt guide move the seat cush ion forward. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety Child restraint system installation method Confirm with the operation manual enclosed with the child restraint system about the installation of the child restraint system. Installation method Page Seat belt attachment P. ISOFIX lower anchor P. age attachment CAMRY HV EE. Child safety Installation method Page Seats with an adjustable type head restraint Top tether anchorage P. attachment Seats with an integrated type head restraint CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety Child restraint system fixed with a seat belt Installing child restraint system using a seat belt Install the child restraint system in accordance to the operation manual enclosed with the child restraint system. If the child restraint system on hand is not within the universal cat egory or the necessary information is not in the table refer to the Vehicle List provided by the child restraint system maker for vari ous possible installation positions or check the compatibility after asking the retailer of the child seat. P. Adjust the seat When using the front passenger seat If installing the child restraint system to the front passenger seat is unavoidable refer to P. for front passenger seat adjustment. When using the reclining type rear seat Adjust the seatback angle to the most upright position. When installing a forward facing child seat if there is a gap between the child seat and the seatback adjust the seatback angle until good contact is achieved. If the head restraint interferes with your child restraint system and the head restraint can be removed remove the head restraint. Otherwise put the head restraint in the upper most position. P. Run the seat belt through the child restraint system and insert the plate into the buckle. Make sure that the belt is not twisted. Securely fix the seat belt to the child restraint system in accor dance to the directions enclosed with the child restraint system. CAMRY HV EE. Child safety If your child restraint system is not equipped with a lock off a seat belt locking fea ture secure the child restraint system using a lock ing clip. After installing the child restraint system rock it back and forth to ensure that it is installed securely. P. Removing a child restraint system installed with a seat belt Press the buckle release button and fully retract the seat belt. When releasing the buckle the child restraint system may spring up due to the rebound of the seat cushion. Release the buckle while holding down the child restraint system. Since the seat belt automatically reels itself slowly return it to the stow ing position. When installing a child restraint system You may need a locking clip to install the child restraint system. Follow the instructions provided by the manufacturer of the system. If your child restraint system does not provide a locking clip you can purchase the following item from any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reli able repairer Locking clip for child restraint system Part No. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety WARNING When installing a child restraint system Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. Do not allow children to play with the seat belt. If the seat belt becomes twisted around a child s neck it may lead to choking or other serious inju ries that could result in death. If this occurs and the buckle cannot be unfastened scissors should be used to cut the belt. Ensure that the belt and plate are securely locked and the seat belt is not twisted. Shake the child restraint system left and right and forward and backward to ensure that it has been securely installed. After securing a child restraint system never adjust the seat. When a junior seat is installed always ensure that the shoulder belt is positioned across the center of the child s shoulder. The belt should be kept away from the child s neck but not so that it could fall off the child s shoulder. Follow all installation instructions provided by the child restraint system manufacturer. CAMRY HV EE. Child safety Child restraint system fixed with an ISOFIX lower anchorage ISOFIX lower anchorages ISOFIX child restraint system Lower anchorages are provided for the rear outboard seats. Marks displaying the location of the anchorages are attached to the seats. Installation with ISOFIX lower anchorage ISOFIX child restraint system Install the child restraint system in accordance to the operation manual enclosed with the child restraint system. If the child restraint system on hand is not within the universal cat egory or the necessary information is not in the table refer to the Vehicle List provided by the child restraint system maker for vari ous possible installation positions or check the compatibility after asking the retailer of the child seat. P. Adjust the seat When using the reclining type rear seat Adjust the seatback angle to the most upright position. When installing a forward facing child seat if there is a gap between the child seat and the seatback adjust the seatback angle until good contact is achieved. If the head restraint interferes with your child restraint system and the head restraint can be removed remove the head restraint. Otherwise put the head restraint in the upper most position. P. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety Remove the anchorage cov ers. Check the positions of the exclusive fixing bars and install the child restraint sys tem to the seat. The bars are installed behind the anchorage covers. After installing the child restraint system rock it back and forth to ensure that it is installed securely. P. WARNING When installing a child restraint system Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. After securing a child restraint system never adjust the seat. When using the lower anchorages be sure that there are no foreign objects around the anchorages and that the seat belt is not caught behind the child restraint system. Follow all installation instructions provided by the child restraint system manufacturer. CAMRY HV EE. Child safety Using a top tether anchorage Top tether anchorages Top tether anchorages are provided for the rear outboard seats. Use top tether anchorages when fixing the top strap. Seats with an adjustable Seats with an integrated type type head restraint head restraint Top tether anchorages Top tether anchorages Top strap Top strap Fixing the top strap to the top tether anchorage Install the child restraint system in accordance to the operation manual enclosed with the child restraint system. Adjust the head restraint to the upmost position. If the head restraint interferes with your child restraint system and the head restraint can be removed remove the head restraint. Otherwise put the head restraint in the upper most posi tion. P. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Child safety Open the top tether anchorage cover latch the hook onto the top tether anchorage and tighten the top strap. Make sure the top strap is securely latched. P. When installing the child restraint system with the head restraint being raised be sure to have the top strap pass underneath the head restraint. Seats with an adjustable Seats with an integrated type type head restraint head restraint Top strap Hook Top strap Hook WARNING When installing a child restraint system Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. Firmly attach the top strap and make sure that the belt is not twisted. Do not attach the top strap to anything other than the top tether anchor age. After securing a child restraint system never adjust the seat. Follow all installation instructions provided by the child restraint system manufacturer. When installing the child restraint system with the head restraint being raised after the head restraint has been raised and then the top tether anchorage has been fixed do not lower the head restraint. NOTICE Top tether anchorage When not in use make certain to close the lid. If it remains open the lid may be damaged. CAMRY HV EE. Emergency assistance eCall eCall is a telematics service that uses Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS data and embedded cellular technology to enable the following emergency calls to be made Automatic emergency calls Automatic Collision Notification and manual emergency calls by pressing the SOS button. The system operates within the eCall coverage. This service is required by European Union Regulations. The system name differs depend ing on the country. System components Microphone SOS button Indicator lights Speaker This button is intended for commu nication with the eCall system operator. Other SOS buttons avail able in other systems of a motor vehicle do not relate to the device and are not intended for communi cation with the eCall system opera tor. If equipped CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Emergency assistance Emergency Notification Services Automatic Emergency Calls If any airbag deploys the system is designed to automatically call the eCall control center. The answering operator receives the vehicle s location the time of the incident and the vehicle VIN and attempts to speak with the vehicle occupants to assess the situation. If the occupants are unable to communicate the operator automati cally treats the call as an emergency and contacts the nearest emergency services provider system etc. to describe the situ ation and request that assistance be sent to the location. In some cases the call cannot be made. P. Manual Emergency Calls In the event of an emergency press the SOS button to call the eCall control center. The answering operator will determine your vehicle s loca tion assess the situation and dispatch the necessary assis tance required. Make sure to open the cover before pressing the SOS but ton. If you accidentally press the SOS button tell the operator that you are not experiencing an emergency. In some cases the call cannot be made. P. CAMRY HV EE. Emergency assistance Indicator lights When the power switch is turned to ON the red indicator light will illu minate for seconds and then the green indicator light will illumi nate indicating that the system is enabled. The indicator lights indicate the following If the green indicator light illuminates and stays on the system is enabled. If the green indicator light flashes twice per second an automatic or manual Emergency Call is being made. If no indicator lights illuminate the system is not enabled. If the red indicator light illuminates at any time other than immedi ately after the power switch is turned to ON the system may be malfunctioning or the backup battery may be depleted. If the red indicator light blinks for approximately seconds during an Emergency Call the call has been disconnected or the cellular network signal is weak. The service life of the backup battery does not exceed years. Free Open Source Software Information This product contains Free Open Source Software FOSS. The license information and or the source code of such FOSS can be found at the following URL. https www.denso.com global en opensource dcm toyota CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Emergency assistance WARNING When the Emergency Call may not be made It may not be possible to make Emergency Calls in any of the following sit uations. In such cases report to emergency services provider system etc. by other means such as nearby public phones. cid Even when the vehicle is in the cellular phone service area it may be difficult to connect to the eCall control center if the reception is poor or the line is busy. In such cases even though the system attempts to con nect to the eCall control center you may not be able to connect to the eCall control center to make Emergency Calls and contact emergency services. cid When the vehicle is out of the cellular phone service area the Emer gency Calls cannot be made. cid When any related equipment such as the SOS button panel indicator lights microphone speaker DCM antenna or any wires connecting the equipment is malfunctioning damaged or broken the Emergency Call cannot be made. cid During an Emergency Call the system makes repeated attempts to connect to the eCall control center. However if it cannot connect to the eCall control center due to poor radio wave reception the system may not be able to connect to the cellular network and the call may finish without connecting. The red indicator light will blink for approximately seconds to indicate this disconnection If the volt battery s voltage decreases or there is a disconnection the system may not be able to connect to the eCall control center. CAMRY HV EE. Emergency assistance WARNING When the Emergency Call system is replaced with a new one The Emergency Call system should be registered. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. For your safety Please drive safely. The function of this system is to assist you in making the Emergency Call in case of accidents such as traffic accidents or sudden medical emergen cies and it does not protect the driver or passengers in any way. Please drive safely and fasten your seatbelts at all times for your safety. In case of an emergency make lives the top priority. If you smell anything burning or other unusual smells leave the vehicle and evacuate to a safe area immediately. If the airbags deploy when the system is operating normally the system makes emergency call. The system also makes emergency call when the vehicle is struck from the rear even if the airbags do not deploy. For safety do not make the Emergency Call while driving. Making calls during driving may cause mishandling of the steering wheel which may lead to unexpected accidents. Stop the vehicle and confirm the safety of your surroundings before making the Emergency Call. When changing fuses please use the specified fuses. Using other fuses may cause ignition or smoke in the circuit and lead to a fire. Using the system while there is smoke or an unusual smell may cause a fire. Stop using the system immediately and consult any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. NOTICE To prevent damage Do not pour any liquids onto the SOS button panel etc. and do not impact it. If the SOS button panel speaker or microphone malfunctions during an Emergency Call or manual maintenance check It may not be possible to make Emergency Calls confirm the system status or communicate with the eCall control center operator. If any of the above equipment is damaged please consult any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Emergency assistance System overview of added service Data processing flow Server Storage Processing DCM Customer activates service on Toyota Customer portal accepts terms of services according to GDPR. Server activates the service in the DCM and defines which vehi cle data to collect. Defined vehicle data is collected by the DCM. Data is shared with the server. Data is stored in the server. Data is processed in the server for fulfilling the service. Processed data is presented to the customer. For a list of eligible service please visit the Toyota Customer portal. CAMRY HV EE. Emergency assistance Implementing Regulation Implementing Regulation Annex PART User Information Conformity. DESCRIPTION OF THE ECALL IN VEHICLE SYSTEM Overview of the based eCall in vehicle O system its operation and functionalities The based eCall service is a public ser vice of general interest and is accessible free O of charge. The based eCall in vehicle system is activated by default. It is activated automati cally by means of in vehicle sensors in the event of a severe accident. It will also be trig O gered automatically when the vehicle is equipped with a TPS system which does not function in the event of a severe accident. The based eCall in vehicle system can also be triggered manually if needed O Instructions for manual activation of the sys tem In the event of a critical system failure that would disable the based eCall in vehicle O system the following warning will be given to the occupants of the vehicle CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Emergency assistance Implementing Regulation Annex PART User Information Conformity. INFORMATION ON DATA PROCESSING Any processing of personal data through the based eCall in vehicle system shall com ply with the personal data protection rules provided for in Directives EC and O EC and in particular shall be based on the necessity to protect the vital interests of the individuals in accordance with Article d of Directive EC. Processing of such data is strictly limited to the purpose of handling the emergency eCall O to the single European emergency number.Types of data and its recipients The based eCall in vehicle system may collect and process only the following data Vehicle Identification Number Vehicle type passenger vehicle or light commercial vehi cle Vehicle propulsion storage type gaso O line diesel CNG LPG electric hydrogen Vehicle last three locations and direction of travel Log file of the automatic activation of the system and its timestamp Recipients of data processed by the based eCall in vehicle system are the rele vant public safety answering points desig nated by the respective public authorities of O the country on which territory they are located to first receive and handle eCalls to the single European emergency number. CAMRY HV EE. Emergency assistance Implementing Regulation Annex PART User Information Conformity Arrangements for data processing The based eCall in vehicle system is designed in such a way as to ensure that the data contained in the system memory is not O available outside the system before an eCall is triggered. The based eCall in vehicle system is designed in such a way as to ensure that it is O not traceable and not subject to any constant tracking in its normal operation status. The based eCall in vehicle system is designed in such a way as to ensure that O data in the system internal memory is auto matically and continuously removed. The vehicle location data is constantly over written in the internal memory of the system so as always to keep maximum of the last O three up to date locations of the vehicle nec essary for the normal functioning of the sys tem. The log of activity data in the based eCall in vehicle system is kept for no longer than necessary for attaining the purpose of han O dling the emergency eCall and in any case not beyond hours from the moment an emergency eCall was initiated. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Emergency assistance Implementing Regulation Annex PART User Information Conformity Modalities for exercising data subject s rights The data subject the vehicle s owner has a right of access to data and as appropriate to request the rectification erasure or blocking of data concerning him or her the process ing of which does not comply with the provi sions of Directive EC. Any third parties O to whom the data have been disclosed have to be notified of such rectification erasure or blocking carried out in compliance with this Directive unless it proves impossible or involves a disproportionate effort. The data subject has a right to complain to the competent data protection authority if he or she considers that his or her rights have O been infringed as a result of the processing of his or her personal data. Contact service responsible for handling access requests if any O P. CAMRY HV EE. Emergency assistance Implementing Regulation Annex PART User Information Conformity. INFORMATION ON THIRD PARTY SERVICES AND OTHER ADDED VALUE SERVICES IF FITTED Description of the operation and the function P. alities of the TPS system added value service Any processing of personal data through the TPS system other added value service shall comply with the personal data protection O rules provided for in Directives EC and EC. The European Legal basis for the use of TPS system and or Union added value services and for processing data General through them Data Protection Regulation The TPS system and or other added value services shall process personal data only on O the base of the explicit consent of the data subject the vehicle s owner or owners. Modalities for data processing through TPS system and or other added value services including any necessary additional informa P. tion regarding traceability tracking and pro cessing of personal data The owner of a vehicle equipped with a TPS eCall system and or other added value ser vice in addition to the based eCall in vehicle system has the right to choose to use O the based eCall in vehicle system rather than the TPS eCall system and the other added value service. Contact details for handling TPS eCall sys N A tem deactivation requests CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Emergency assistance Service responsible for handling access requests Country Contact information Austria datenschutz toyota frey.at Belgium Luxembourg privacy toyota.be Croatia dpcp toyota.hr Czech Republic adatvedelem toyota ce.com Hungary Slovakia Denmark toyota toyota.dk og Estonia privacy toyota.ee Finland tietosuoja toyota.fi France delegue.protectiondonnees toyota europe.com Germany Toyota.Datenschutz toyota.de Great Britain privacy tgb.toyota.co.uk Greece customer toyota.gr Iceland personuvernd toyota.is Ireland customerservice toyota.ie Italy tmi.dpo toyota europe.com Netherlands www.toyota.nl klantenservice Norway personvern toyota.no Poland klient toyota.pl Portugal gestaodadospessoais toyotacaetano.pt Romania relatii.clienti toyota.ro Slovenia dpcp toyota.si Spain clientes toyota.es dpo toyota.es. Sweden integritet toyota.se Switzerland info toyota.ch CAMRY HV EE. Emergency assistance Certification for eCall CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Emergency assistance CAMRY HV EE. Emergency assistance CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Emergency assistance CAMRY HV EE. Emergency assistance CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Emergency assistance Consumer Protection Law CAMRY HV EE. Hybrid system Hybrid system features Your vehicle is a hybrid vehicle. It has characteristics different from conventional vehicles. Be sure you are closely familiar with the characteristics of your vehicle and operate it with care. The hybrid system combines the use of a gasoline engine and an electric motor traction motor according to driving condi tions improving fuel efficiency and reducing exhaust emis sions. The illustration is an example for explanation and may differ from the actual item. Gasoline engine Electric motor traction motor CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Hybrid system When stopped during start off The gasoline engine stops when the vehicle is stopped. During start off the electric motor traction motor drives the vehicle. At slow speeds or when traveling down a gentle slope the engine is stopped and the electric motor traction motor is used. When the shift lever is in N the hybrid battery traction battery is not being charged. When the hybrid battery traction battery requires charging or the engine is warming up etc. the gasoline engine will not automatically stop. P. During normal driving The gasoline engine is predominantly used. The electric motor traction motor charges the hybrid battery traction battery as nec essary. When accelerating sharply When the accelerator pedal is depressed heavily the power of the hybrid battery traction battery is added to that of the gasoline engine via the electric motor traction motor. When braking regenerative braking The wheels operate the electric motor traction motor as a power generator and the hybrid battery traction battery is charged. CAMRY HV EE. Hybrid system Regenerative braking In the following situations kinetic energy is converted to electric energy and deceleration force can be obtained in conjunction with the recharging of the hybrid battery traction battery. The accelerator pedal is released while driving with the shift lever in D or S. The brake pedal is depressed while driving with the shift lever in D or S. EV indicator The EV indicator comes on when the vehicle is driven using only the electric motor traction motor or the gasoline engine is stopped. Conditions in which the gasoline engine may not stop The gasoline engine starts and stops automatically. However it may not stop automatically in the following conditions During gasoline engine warm up During hybrid battery traction battery charging When the temperature of the hybrid battery traction battery is high or low When the heater is switched on Depending on the circumstances the gasoline engine may also not stop automatically in situations other than those above. Charging the hybrid battery traction battery As the gasoline engine charges the hybrid battery traction battery the bat tery does not need to be charged from an outside source. However if the vehicle is left parked for a long time the hybrid battery traction battery will slowly discharge. For this reason be sure to drive the vehicle at least once every few months for at least minutes or km miles. If the hybrid battery traction battery becomes fully discharged and you are unable to start the hybrid system contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Charging the volt battery P. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Hybrid system After the volt battery has discharged or when the terminal has been removed and installed during exchange etc. The gasoline engine may not stop even if the vehicle is being driven by the hybrid battery traction battery. If this continues for a few days contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Sounds and vibrations specific to a hybrid vehicle There may be no engine sound or vibration even though the vehicle is able to move with the READY indicator is illuminated. For safety apply the parking brake and make sure to shift the shift lever to P when parked. The following sounds or vibrations may occur when the hybrid system is operating and are not a malfunction Motor sounds may be heard from the engine compartment. Sounds may be heard from the hybrid battery traction battery under the rear seats when the hybrid system starts or stops. Relay operating sounds such as a snap or soft clank will be emitted from the hybrid battery traction battery under the rear seats when the hybrid sys tem is started or stopped. Sounds from the hybrid system may be heard when the trunk lid is open. Sounds may be heard from the transmission when the gasoline engine starts or stops when driving at low speeds or during idling. Engine sounds may be heard when accelerating sharply. Sounds may be heard due to regenerative braking when the brake pedal is depressed or as the accelerator pedal is released. Vibration may be felt when the gasoline engine starts or stops. Cooling fan sounds may be heard from the air intake vent. P. Maintenance repair recycling and disposal Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer regarding maintenance repair recycling and disposal. Do not dispose of the vehicle yourself. CAMRY HV EE. Hybrid system Hybrid system precautions Take care when handling the hybrid system as it is a high volt age system about V at maximum as well as contains parts that become extremely hot when the hybrid system is operating. Obey the warning labels attached to the vehicle. The illustration is an example for explanation and may differ from the actual item. Warning label High voltage cables orange Service plug Electric motor traction motor Hybrid battery traction bat Power control unit tery Air conditioning compressor CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Hybrid system Hybrid battery traction battery air intake vent There is an air intake vent under the right side of the rear seat for the purpose of cooling the hybrid battery traction battery. If the vent becomes blocked charging discharging of the hybrid battery traction battery may become lim ited. Emergency shut off system When a certain level of impact is detected by the impact sensor the emergency shut off system blocks the high voltage current and stops the fuel pump to minimize the risk of electrocution and fuel leakage. If the emergency shut off system activates your vehicle will not restart. To restart the hybrid system contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Hybrid warning message A message is automatically displayed when a malfunction occurs in the hybrid system or an improper operation is attempted. If a warning message is shown on the multi information display read the message and follow the instructions. P. CAMRY HV EE. Hybrid system If a warning light comes on a warning message is displayed or the volt battery is disconnected The hybrid system may not start. In this case try to start the system again. If the READY indicator does not come on contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Running out of fuel When the vehicle has run out of fuel and the hybrid system cannot be started refuel the vehicle with at least enough gasoline to make the low fuel level warning light P. go off. If there is only a small amount of fuel the hybrid system may not be able to start. The standard amount of fuel is about. L. gal Imp. gal. when the vehicle is on a level surface. This value may vary when the vehicle is on a slope. Add extra fuel when the vehicle is inclined. Electromagnetic waves High voltage parts and cables on hybrid vehicles incorporate electromag netic shielding and therefore emit approximately the same amount of elec tromagnetic waves as conventional gasoline powered vehicles or home electronic appliances. Your vehicle may cause sound interference in some third party produced radio parts. Hybrid battery traction battery The hybrid battery traction battery has a limited service life. The lifespan of the hybrid battery traction battery can change in accordance with driving style and driving conditions. Declaration of conformity This model conforms to hydrogen emissions according to regulation ECE Battery electric vehicle safety. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Hybrid system WARNING High voltage precautions This vehicle has high voltage DC and AC systems as well as a volt sys tem. DC and AC high voltage is very dangerous and can cause severe burns and electric shock that may result in death or serious injury. Never touch disassemble remove or replace the high voltage parts cables or their connectors. The hybrid system will become hot after starting as the system uses high voltage. Be careful of both the high voltage and the high temperature and always obey the warning labels attached to the vehicle. Do not touch the service plug located under the right side of the rear seat. The service plug is used only when the vehi cle is serviced and is subject to high voltage. CAMRY HV EE. Hybrid system WARNING Road accident cautions Observe the following precautions to reduce the risk of death or serious injury Pull your vehicle off the road apply the parking brake shift the shift lever to P and turn the hybrid system off. Do not touch the high voltage parts cables and connectors. If electric wires are exposed inside or outside your vehicle an electric shock may occur. Never touch exposed electric wires. If a fluid leak occurs do not touch the fluid as it may be strong alkaline electrolyte from the hybrid battery traction battery. If it comes into contact with your skin or eyes wash it off immediately with a large amount of water or if possible boric acid solution. Seek immediate medical attention. If electrolyte is leaking from the hybrid battery traction battery do not approach the vehicle. Even in the unlikely event that the hybrid battery traction battery is dam aged the internal construction of the battery will prevent a large amount of electrolyte from leaking out. However any electrolyte that does leak out will give off a vapor. This vapor is an irritant to skin and eyes and could cause acute poisoning if inhaled. If a fire occurs in the hybrid vehicle leave the vehicle as soon as possible. Never use a fire extinguisher that is not meant for electric fires. Using even a small amount of water may be dangerous. If your vehicle needs to be towed do so with front wheels raised. If the wheels connected to the electric motor traction motor are on the ground when towing the motor may continue to generate electricity. This may cause a fire. P. Carefully inspect the ground under the vehicle. If you find that liquid has leaked onto the ground the fuel system may have been damaged. Leave the vehicle as soon as possible. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Hybrid system WARNING Hybrid battery traction battery Never resell hand over or modify the hybrid battery. To prevent accidents hybrid batteries that have been removed from a disposed vehicle are col lected through any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Do not dispose of the battery yourself. Unless the battery is properly collected the following may occur resulting in death or serious injury cid The hybrid battery may be illegally disposed of or dumped and it is haz ardous to the environment or someone may touch a high voltage part resulting in an electric shock. cid The hybrid battery is intended to be used exclusively with your hybrid vehicle. If the hybrid battery is used outside of your vehicle or modified in any way accidents such as electric shock heat generation smoke generation an explosion and electrolyte leakage may occur. When reselling or handing over your vehicle the possibility of an accident is extremely high because the person receiving the vehicle may not be aware of these dangers. If your vehicle is disposed of without the hybrid battery having been removed there is a danger of serious electric shock if high voltage parts cables and their connectors are touched. In the event that your vehicle must be disposed of the hybrid battery must be disposed of by any autho rized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. If the hybrid battery is not disposed of properly it may cause electric shock that can result in death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE. Hybrid system NOTICE Hybrid battery traction battery air intake vent Make sure not to block the air intake vent with anything such as a seat cover plastic cover or luggage. The hybrid battery traction battery may overheat and be damaged. When dust etc. has accumulated in the air intake vent clean it with a vac uum cleaner to prevent the vent from clogging. Do not get water or foreign materials in the air intake vent as this may cause a short circuit and damage the hybrid battery traction battery. Do not carry large amounts of water such as water cooler bottles in the vehicle. If water spills onto the hybrid battery traction battery the battery may be damaged. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. There is a filter installed to the air intake vent. When the filter remains noticeably dirty even after cleaning the air intake vent filter cleaning or replacement is recommended. When cleaning the filter refer to P CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Theft deterrent system Immobilizer system The vehicle s keys have built in transponder chips that prevent the hybrid system from starting if a key has not been previously registered in the vehicle s on board computer. Never leave the keys inside the vehicle when you leave the vehi cle. This system is designed to help prevent vehicle theft but does not guarantee absolute security against all vehicle thefts. The indicator light flashes after the power switch has been turned off to indicate that the system is operating. The indicator light stops flashing after the power switch has been turned to ACCESSORY or ON mode to indicate that the system has been canceled. System maintenance The vehicle has a maintenance free type immobilizer system. Conditions that may cause the system to malfunction If the grip portion of the key is in contact with a metallic object If the key is in close proximity to or touching a key to the security system key with a built in transponder chip of another vehicle CAMRY HV EE. Theft deterrent system Certifications for the engine immobilizer system CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Theft deterrent system CAMRY HV EE. Theft deterrent system CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Theft deterrent system CAMRY HV EE. Theft deterrent system CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Theft deterrent system CAMRY HV EE. Theft deterrent system CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Theft deterrent system CAMRY HV EE. Theft deterrent system CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Theft deterrent system CAMRY HV EE. Theft deterrent system CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Theft deterrent system CAMRY HV EE. Theft deterrent system NOTICE To ensure the system operates correctly Do not modify or remove the system. If modified or removed the proper operation of the system cannot be guaranteed. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Theft deterrent system Alarm The alarm The alarm uses light and sound to give an alert when an intrusion is detected. The alarm is triggered in the following situations when the alarm is set A locked door or trunk is unlocked or opened in any way other than using the entry function or wireless remote control. The doors will lock again automatically. The hood is opened. Setting the alarm system Close the doors trunk and hood and lock all the doors using the entry function or wireless remote control. The system will be set automatically after seconds. The indicator light changes from being on to flashing when the sys tem is set. Deactivating or stopping the alarm Do one of the following to deactivate or stop the alarms Unlock the doors or open the trunk using the entry function or wire less remote control. Start the hybrid system. The alarm will be deactivated or stopped after a few seconds. If equipped CAMRY HV EE. Theft deterrent system System maintenance The vehicle has a maintenance free type alarm system. Items to check before locking the vehicle To prevent unexpected triggering of the alarm and vehicle theft make sure of the following Nobody is in the vehicle. The windows are closed before the alarm is set. No valuables or other personal items are left in the vehicle. Triggering of the alarm The alarm may be triggered in the following situations Stopping the alarm deactivates the alarm system. The doors are unlocked using the mechanical key. The trunk is opened using the mechani cal key. A person inside the vehicle opens a door or the trunk or hood or unlocks the vehi cle. The volt battery is recharged or replaced when the vehicle is locked. P. CAMRY HV EE For safety and security. Theft deterrent system Alarm operated door lock In the following cases depending on the situation the door may automatically lock to prevent improper entry into the vehicle When a person remaining in the vehicle unlocks the door and the alarm is activated. While the alarm is activated a person remaining in the vehicle unlocks the door. When recharging or replacing the volt battery NOTICE To ensure the system operates correctly Do not modify or remove the system. If modified or removed the proper operation of the system cannot be guaranteed. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Warning lights and indicators Gauges and meters Multi information display Head up display Energy monitor consumption screen CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Warning lights and indicators The warning lights and indicators on the instrument cluster cen ter panel and outside rear view mirrors inform the driver of the status of the vehicle s various systems. For the purpose of explanation the following illustrations dis play all warning lights and indicators illuminated. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Warning lights Warning lights inform the driver of malfunctions in any of the vehicle s systems. Brake system warning PCS warning light light P. P. Red Brake system warning ICS OFF indicator light P. P. Yellow if equipped LDA Lane Departure Malfunction indicator Alert indicator lamp P. P. Yellow SRS warning light Slip indicator P. P. ABS warning light Low fuel level warning P. light P. Driver s and front Parking brake indicator passenger s seat belt P. reminder light P. Brake hold operated Master warning light indicator P. P. Electric power steering Tire pressure warning system warning light light P. P. Red yellow CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster These lights turn on when the power switch is turned to ON mode to indi cate that a system check is being performed. They will turn off after the hybrid system is on or after a few seconds. There may be a malfunction in a system if a light does not come on or turn off. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. This light flashes or illuminates to indicate a malfunction. This light flashes to indicate a malfunction. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Indicators The indicators inform the driver of the operating state of the vehicle s various systems. Turn signal indicator Cruise control indicator P. P. Dynamic radar cruise Tail light indicator control indicator P. P. Headlight high beam Cruise control SET indicator P. indicator P. Automatic High Beam PCS warning light indicator P. P. Front fog light indicator ICS OFF indicator P. P. if equipped if equipped LDA Lane Departure Rear fog light indicator Alert indicator P. P. White LDA Lane Departure AGC Auto Glide Con Alert indicator trol indicator P. P. Green LDA Lane Departure Parking brake indicator Alert indicator P. P. Yellow Brake hold operated Slip indicator P. indicator P. Brake hold standby VSC OFF indicator indicator P. P. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster BSM indicator SPORT indicator P. P. if equipped RCTA indicator ECO MODE indicator P. P. if equipped BSM Blind Spot Moni tor outside rear view READY indicator mirror indicators P. P. if equipped PASSENGER AIRBAG EV indicator P. indicator P. if equipped Type A PASSENGER AIRBAG EV drive mode indicator indicator P. P. if equipped Type B Security indicator Low outside tempera P. ture indicator P. Toyota parking assist sensor indicator P. These lights turn on when the power switch is turned to ON mode to indi cate that a system check is being performed. They will turn off after the hybrid system is on or after a few seconds. There may be a malfunction in a system if a light does not come on or turn off. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. This light turns on when the system is off. This light flashes to indicate that the system is operating. This light illuminates on the center panel. When the outside temperature is approximately C F or lower this indicator will flash for approximately seconds then stay on. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster These indicators will illuminate in the following situations to indicate that the system initial check is being performed cid When the BSM function or RCTA function is enabled and the power switch is turned to ON mode. cid When the power switch is in ON mode and the BSM function is enabled. cid When the power switch is in ON mode and the RCTA function is enabled. At this time a buzzer will also sound. The indicators will turn off after a few seconds. If the indicators do not illuminate or turn off or if a buzzer does not sound when the RCTA func tion is enabled the system may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. This light illuminates on the outside rear view mirrors. WARNING If a safety system warning light does not come on Should a safety system light such as the ABS and SRS warning lights not come on when you start the hybrid system this could mean that these sys tems are not available to help protect you in an accident which could result in death or serious injury. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer imme diately if this occurs. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Gauges and meters The units used on the meters may differ depending on the target region. Hybrid System Indicator Displays hybrid system output or regeneration level P. Shift position P. Outside temperature Displays the outside temperature within the range of C F to C F. Low outside temperature indicator comes on when the ambient temperature is C F or lower. Multi information display Presents the driver with a variety of vehicle data P. Displays warning messages in case of a malfunction P. Speedometer Fuel gauge Odometer and trip meter P. Engine coolant temperature gauge Displays the engine coolant temperature CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Instrument panel light control The brightness of the instrument panel lights can be adjusted. Darker Brighter cid The brightness of the instrument panel lights can be adjusted individually for day mode and night mode. cid If the brightness is adjusted when the surroundings are bright and the tail lights are on day mode brightness adjust ment the brightness level of night mode will be adjusted at the same time. Day mode and night mode P. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster The meters and display illuminate when The power switch is in ON mode. Brightness of the meters day mode and night mode The brightness of the meters is changed between day mode and night mode. cid Day mode When the tail lights are off or when the tail lights are on but the surrounding area is bright cid Night mode When the tail lights are on and the surrounding area is dark When in night mode the brightness will be reduced slightly unless the meters are set to the maximum brightness level. Hybrid System Indicator Charge area Shows regenerative charging. Hybrid Eco area Shows that gasoline engine power is not being used very often. The gasoline engine will automatically stop and restart under various condi tions. Eco area Shows that the vehicle is being driven in an Eco friendly manner. Power area Shows that an Eco friendly driving range is being exceeded during full power driving etc. By keeping the indicator needle within Eco area more Eco friendly driving can be achieved. Charge area indicates regeneration status. Regenerated energy will be used to charge the battery. When used in this manual regeneration refers to the conversion of energy created by the movement of the vehicle into electrical energy. The Hybrid System Indicator will not operate in the following situations The READY indicator is not illuminated. The shift lever is in any position other than D or S. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Engine speed On hybrid vehicles engine speed is precisely controlled in order to help improve fuel efficiency and reduce exhaust emissions etc. There are times when the engine speed that is displayed may differ even when vehicle operation and driving conditions are the same. Outside temperature display In the following situations the correct outside temperature may not be dis played or the display may take longer than normal to change When stopped or driving at low speeds less than km h mph When the outside temperature has changed suddenly at the entrance exit of a garage tunnel etc. When or E is displayed the system may be malfunctioning. Take your vehicle to any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. NOTICE To prevent damage to the engine and its components The engine may be overheating if the engine coolant temperature gauge is in the red zone H. In this case immediately stop the vehicle in a safe place and check the engine after it has cooled completely. P. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Multi information display Summary of functions The multi information display presents the driver with a variety of driv ing related data such as the current outside temperature. The multi information display can also be used to change the display settings and other settings. Indicators P. Dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control display area Displays the operational status of the following systems cid Dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range P. cid LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control P. RSA Road Sign Assist if equipped P. Clock For clock settings refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. Speedometer The speedometer display can be enabled disabled in on the multi information display. P. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Content display area A variety of information can be displayed by selecting a menu icon. Addi tionally warning or suggestion advice pop up displays will be displayed in some situations. cid Menu icon content P. cid Suggestion function P. cid Warning message P. Odometer trip meter P. Shift position P. Outside temperature P. Menu icons P. ODO TRIP switch P. Meter control switches P. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Using the multi information display Using the content display area The content display area is operated using the meter control switches. Scroll screens change the displayed content and move the cursor Press Enter Set Press and hold Reset Dis play the next screen Return to the previous screen Pressing and holding the switch will display the first screen of the selected menu icon. When the screen can be scrolled or different content can be displayed a mark such as an arrow will be displayed to suggest which switch to operate. Using the odometer trip meter Items in this area are operated using the ODO TRIP switch. Press Change displayed item Each time the switch is pressed the displayed item will be changed. Press and hold Reset Display the desired trip meter and press and hold the switch to reset the trip meter. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Menu icons Select a menu icon to display its content. Warning message display P. This menu icon will be displayed only when a warning message can be displayed. Select to display warning messages and measures to be taken if a mal function is detected. Eco friendly driving information P. Select to display fuel consumption data in various forms. Driving assist system information Select to perform the following Display the operational status of the following systems cid Dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range P. cid LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control P. Display the following navigation system linked information if equipped cid Route guidance cid Compass display heading up display Audio system linked display if equipped Select to enable selection of an audio source or track on the meter using the meter control switches. Vehicle information Select to perform the following Display the following information cid Energy monitor P. Enable Disable the following system cid Parking assist Toyota parking assist sensor P. cid BSM Blind Spot Monitor function if equipped P. cid RCTA Rear Crossing Traffic Alert function if equipped P. This function can also be enabled disabled on. Settings display P. Select to change the meter display settings and other settings. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Eco friendly driving information Fuel consumption Current fuel consumption Displays the instantaneous cur rent fuel consumption. Average fuel economy after start Displays the average fuel con sumption since hybrid system start. Driving range Displays the driving range with remaining fuel. Gadget The following items can be displayed by changing the settings for gad get content and fuel economy type on. P. Displayable item Content Gadget Fuel economy content type Trip Displays the average vehicle speed since Average after start hybrid system start. vehicle speed Total Displays the average vehicle speed since the after reset display was reset. Trip Displays the distance driven since vehicle after start start. Distance Total Displays the distance driven since the display after reset was reset. Trip Displays the elapsed time since hybrid system after start start. Elapsed time Total Displays the elapsed time since the display after reset was reset. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Average fuel economy Displayed item listed below can be changed on the fuel economy type screen of. P. Total after reset Displays the average fuel consumption since the display was reset. Tank after refuel Displays the average fuel consumption since the vehicle was refueled. Use the displayed fuel consumption as a reference only. When only a small amount of fuel is added to the tank the display may not be updated. When refueling turn the power switch off. If the vehicle is refueled with out turning the power switch off the display may not be updated. This distance is computed based on your average fuel consumption. As a result the actual distance that can be driven may differ from that dis played. The default setting is no display. This display can be reset by pressing and holding while it is dis played. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Eco guide The Eco guide displays a guide for eco friendly acceleration and scores which represent an evaluation of how the vehicle has been driven ecologically in different states. ECO Accelerator Guidance Eco score ECO Accelerator Guidance Eco area Indicates that the vehicle is being driven in an Eco friendly manner. Power area Indicates that the Eco friendly driving range is being exceeded during full power driving etc. Eco driving ratio based on acceleration Zone of Eco acceleration Suggests a range in which Eco friendly acceleration can be performed. The zone of Eco acceleration changes according to situations such as starting off or cruising. Eco friendly acceleration can be achieved by keeping the Eco driving ratio based on acceleration bar within the zone of Eco acceleration. P. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Eco score The following Eco driving methods are evaluated in levels Smooth start off acceleration driving without sudden acceleration and smooth stopping. When the vehicle is stopped an Eco score out of points will be displayed. Eco start status Eco cruise status Eco stop status Score result How to read the bar display Not yet evaluated Low High cid After the hybrid system is started the Eco score will not be dis played until the vehicle speed exceeds approximately km h mph. cid The Eco score will be reset each time the hybrid system is started. cid When the hybrid system is stopped the total score of the current trip will be displayed. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Settings display Changing settings Use the meter control switches on the steering wheel to change settings. Press or to select. Operate the switches to select a desired item. Press or press and hold. The available settings will differ depending on if is pressed or pressed and held. Follow the instructions on the display. Setting items LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control P. Press and hold to change the settings of the following items Item Settings Details On Select to enable disable steering Steering assist Off wheel assistance. High Select to set the warning sensi Alert sensitivity tivity. Std. On Select to enable disable the vehi Sway warning cle sway warning. Off High Select to set the vehicle sway Sway sensitivity Std. warning sensitivity. Low CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster PCS Pre Collision System P. Press and hold to change the settings of the following items Item Settings Details On Select to enable disable the pre PCS collision system. Off Select to change the warning Warning sensitivity timing. BSM Blind Spot Monitor if equipped P. Press to enable disable the Blind Spot Monitor function. Item Settings Details On Select to enable disable the BSM Blind Spot Monitor function. Off Press and hold to change the settings of the following item Item Settings Details Outside rear view Bright Select to change the brightness mirror indicator of the outside rear view mirror brightness Dim indicators. RCTA Rear Crossing Traffic Alert if equipped P. Press to enable disable the Rear Crossing Traffic Alert func tion. Item Settings Details On Select to enable disable the Rear RCTA Crossing Traffic Alert function. Off Press and hold to change the settings of the following item Item Settings Details Low RCTA buzzer vol Select to change the volume of Medium ume the RCTA buzzer. Loud CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster ICS Intelligent Clearance Sonar if equipped P. Press to enable disable the Intelligent Clearance Sonar. Item Settings Details On Select to enable disable the ICS Intelligent Clearance Sonar sys Off tem. Parking assist Toyota parking assist sensor P. Press to enable disable the Toyota parking assist sensor. Item Settings Details On Toyota parking Select to enable disable the assist sensor Toyota parking assist sensor. Off Press and hold to change the settings of the following item Item Settings Details Low Select to change the volume of Volume Medium the Toyota parking assist sensor buzzer. Loud CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster HUD Head up display if equipped P. Press to enable disable the head up display. Item Settings Details On Select to enable disable the HUD head up display. Off Press and hold to change the settings of the following items Item Settings Details Select to adjust the brightness position of the head up display. cid Press the switch to HUD Brightness Position adjust the display brightness. cid Press the switch to adjust the display position. Select to change the display between the following Tachometer set cid Hybrid System Indicator tings cid Tachometer cid No content HUD Driving sup Navigation sys port tem Driving Assist Select to enable disable head up display content. Compass Audio system Select to adjust the angle of the head up display. Rotation Press the switch to adjust the display angle. Rear sunshade if equipped P. Press to raise lower the rear sunshade. Item Settings Details Raised Select to raise lower the rear Rear sunshade sunshade. Lowered CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster RSA Road Sign Assist if equipped P. Press and hold to change the settings of the following items Item Settings Details On Select to enable disable the RSA RSA. Off Select to select a notification method used to warn the driver if the vehicle speed exceeds the speed displayed on the speed Excess speed limit sign on the multi information notification display. Available methods cid No Notification cid Only Visual cid Visual and Audible Notification method Select to select a notification method used to warn the driver if the system detects the following cid The vehicle is overtaking when a no overtaking sign is dis Other notifications played on the multi information display. Available methods cid No Notification cid Only Visual cid Visual and Audible km h mph Select to select a speed thresh old over which the excess speed km h mph Excess speed noti notification will start to operate fication level when a speed limit sign is dis km h mph played on the multi information display. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Vehicle settings Press and hold to change the settings of the following items Item Settings Details TPWS Tire pressure warning system P. Select to initialize the tire pres sure warning system. To per form initialization press and hold Set pressure tire pressure warning sys the switch. tem initialization Before performing initialization make sure to adjust the inflation pressure of each tire to the spec ified level. P. Select to change the tire pres sure warning system sensor ID code set. To enable this function a second set of tire pressure warning sys tem sensor ID codes must be Change wheel change the tire pres registered by any authorized sure warning system sensor ID code Toyota retailer or Toyota autho set rized repairer or any reliable repairer. For information regard ing changing the registered ID code set contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota autho rized repairer or any reliable repairer. P. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Meter settings Press and hold to change the settings of the following items Item Settings Details Select to change the language Language displayed. Select to change the units of Units measure displayed. On Select to enable disable the EV EV indicator indicator. P. Off On Select to enable disable the Speedometer speedometer display. Off Off No display Average vehicle speed Gadget content Select to turn the display of a Distance gadget. Elapsed time Trip after start Select to change the average Total after reset Fuel economy type fuel consumption display and an Tank item to be displayed as gadget. after refuel Select to turn the multi informa tion display off. To turn the multi information dis Multi information display off play on again press any direc tion switch. Intersection guid ance if equipped Select to enable disable the pop Pop up display Incoming calls up display. Brightness adjust ment Select to reset the meter display Default setting settings to the default setting. Selecting this item will only change the gadget. Selecting this item will turn the display of the gadget off. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Odometer trip meter Odometer Displays the total distance the vehicle has been driven. Trip meter A trip meter B Displays the distance the vehicle has been driven since the meter was last reset. Trip meters A and B can be used to record and dis play different distances independently. To reset display the desired trip meter and press and hold the ODO TRIP switch. Suggestion function Displays suggestions to the driver in the following situations. To select a response to a displayed suggestion use the meter control switches. The suggestion function can be turned on off. Customizable features P. Suggestion to turn off the headlights If the headlights are left on for a certain amount of time after the power switch has been turned off if the headlight switch is in the AUTO position a suggestion message will be displayed asking if you wish to turn the headlights off. To turn the headlights off select Yes. If a front door is opened after the power switch is turned off this sugges tion message will not be displayed. Suggestion to close the power windows linked to windshield wiper operation If the windshield wipers are operated with a power window open a suggestion message will be displayed asking if you wish to close the power windows. To close all of the power windows select Yes. If the window lock switch is on this suggestion message will not be dis played. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Suggestion to close the power windows linked to vehicle speed If the vehicle is driven at high speeds for a certain amount of time with a power window open a suggestion message will be displayed asking if you wish to close the power windows. To close all of the power windows select Yes. If the window lock switch is on this suggestion message will not be dis played. The Eco guide will not operate when The Eco guide will not operate in the following situations The Hybrid System Indicator is not operating. The vehicle is being driven using the dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range. Suspension of the settings display Some settings cannot be changed while driving. When changing settings park the vehicle in a safe place. If a warning message is displayed operation of the settings display will be suspended. Liquid crystal display Small spots or light spots may appear on the display. This phenomenon is characteristic of liquid crystal displays and there is no problem continuing to use the display. Customization Some functions can be customized. P. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster WARNING Caution for use while driving When operating the multi information display while driving pay extra attention to the safety of the area around the vehicle. Do not look continuously at the multi information display while driving as you may fail to see pedestrians objects on the road etc. ahead of the vehicle. The information display at low temperatures Allow the interior of the vehicle to warm up before using the liquid crystal information display. At extremely low temperatures the information display monitor may respond slowly and display changes may be delayed. For example there is a lag between the driver s shifting and the new gear number appearing on the display. This lag could cause the driver to downshift again causing rapid and excessive engine braking and possibly an accident resulting in death or injury. Cautions during setting up the display As the hybrid system needs to be operating during setting up the display ensure that the vehicle is parked in a place with adequate ventilation. In a closed area such as a garage exhaust gases including harmful carbon monoxide CO may collect and enter the vehicle. This may lead to death or a serious health hazard. NOTICE While setting up the display To prevent volt battery discharge ensure that the hybrid system is oper ating while setting up the display features. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Head up display Summary of functions The head up display is linked to the meters and navigation system and projects a variety of information in front of the driver such as the current vehicle speed. Driving assist system status navigation system linked display area P. The following pop up displays will be displayed in certain situations cid Pre collision warning pre collision system cid Alert from the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system Shift position display P. Vehicle speed display Hybrid System Indicator Tachometer P. Information display area P. The following pop up displays will be displayed in certain situations cid Warning message cid Hands free system status cid Audio system operation status If equipped CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Using the head up display Select on the multi information display P. and then. Enabling disabling the head up display Press to enable disable the head up display. Changing the head up display settings Press and hold to change the following settings Hybrid System Indicator Tachometer Select to display Hybrid System Indicator tachometer no content. Display brightness position Select to adjust the brightness and position of the head up display. Display content Select to enable disable the following items cid Route guidance to destination cid Driving assist system status cid Compass cid Audio system operation status Display angle Select to adjust the angle of the head up display. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Driving assist system status navigation system linked display area Driving assist system status display Displays the operational status of the following systems cid Dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range P. cid LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control P. cid Toyota parking assist sensor P. Navigation system linked display area Displays the following items which are linked to the navigation sys tem Route guidance to destination Displayed when the navigation system is performing route guid ance. When approaching an intersection an arrow will be displayed to indicate the suggested direction of travel. Compass Displays the direction of travel. Hybrid System Indicator Tachometer Hybrid System Indicator Charge area Hybrid Eco area Eco area Power area Displayed content is the same as that displayed on the meter Hybrid System Indicator. For details refer to P Tachometer Displays the engine speed in revolutions per minute. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Information display area Displays the following items in the appropriate situation Warning Message Alert from the LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control Dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range message Displayed when a suggestion advice pop up display is displayed on the multi information display. P. message Displayed when a warning message is displayed on the multi informa tion display. P. Outside temperature Displayed in the following situations cid When the power switch is turned to ON mode cid When the low outside temperature indicator is flashing Displayed content is the same as that displayed on the multi information display. For details refer to the explanation of the outside temperature display on the multi information display. P. Hands free system status Displayed when the hands free system is operated. Audio system operation status Displayed when the audio system is operated. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Head up display The head up display may seem dark or hard to see when viewed through sunglasses especially polarized sunglasses. Adjust the brightness of the head up display or remove your sunglasses. Display brightness The brightness of the head up display can be adjusted on of the multi information display. Also it is automatically adjusted according to the ambient brightness. Enabling disabling of the head up display If the head up display is disabled it will remain disabled when the power switch is turned off then back to ON mode. WARNING Before using the head up display Check that the position and brightness of the head up display image does not interfere with safe driving. Incorrect adjustment of the image s position or brightness may obstruct the driver s view and lead to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. Do not continuously look at the head up display while driving as you may fail to see pedestrians objects on the road etc. ahead of the vehicle. Caution for changing settings of the head up display As the hybrid system needs to be running while changing the settings of the head up display ensure that the vehicle is parked in a place with adequate ventilation. In a closed area such as a garage exhaust gases including harmful carbon monoxide CO may collect and enter the vehicle. This may lead to death or a serious health hazard. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster NOTICE To prevent damage to components Do not place any drinks near the head up display projector. If the projector gets wet electrical malfunctions may result. Do not place anything on or put stickers onto the head up display projector. Doing so could interrupt head up dis play indications. Do not touch the inside of the head up display projector or thrust sharp edges or the like into the projector. Doing so could cause mechanical mal functions. When changing the settings of the head up display To prevent volt battery discharge ensure that the hybrid system is oper ating while the changing the settings of the head up display. CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Energy monitor consumption screen You can view the status of your hybrid system on the multi infor mation display and the audio system screen. The illustrations below are for left hand drive vehicles. Audio system screen Multi information display Energy monitor Press the MENU button. Select Info on the Menu screen. If the Trip information or History screen is displayed select Energy. Multi information display Press the meter control switches on the steering wheel several times to select the energy monitor display. CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Multi information Audio system screen display When the vehi cle is powered by the electric motor traction motor When the vehi cle is powered by the gasoline engine When the vehi cle is powered by both the gas oline engine and the electric motor traction motor CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster Multi information Audio system screen display When the vehi cle is charging the hybrid bat tery traction battery When there is no energy flow Hybrid battery traction bat tery status Low Full Low Full CAMRY HV EE. Instrument cluster Fuel consumption screen Trip information Press the MENU button. Select Info on the Menu screen. If the Energy monitor or History screen is displayed select Trip information. Resetting the consumption data Displays the average vehi cle speed since the hybrid system was started Displays the elapsed time since the hybrid system was started Fuel consumption in the past minutes Cruising range Regenerated energy in the past minutes One symbol indicates Wh. Up to symbols are shown. The image is example only and may vary slightly from actual condi tions. Current fuel consumption CAMRY HV EE Instrument cluster. Instrument cluster History Press the MENU button. Select Info on the Menu screen. If the Energy monitor or Trip information screen is displayed select History. Resetting the past record data Best past fuel consump tion Current fuel economy Previous fuel consump tion record Displays the daily average fuel consumption. Updating the average fuel consumption data Displays a maximum of five past record of the average fuel consump tion. The image is example only and may vary slightly from actual condi tions. Resetting the consumption data Selecting Clear on the Trip information screen will reset the fuel consump tion and the regenerated energy for the past minutes. Selecting Clear on the History screen will reset the past records and best past fuel consump tion. Selecting Yes on the following screen will confirm resetting of all the data. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Key information Keys. Opening closing and locking the doors Doors Trunk Smart entry start system. Adjusting the seats Front seats Rear seats Head restraints. Adjusting the steering wheel and mirrors Steering wheel Inside rear view mirror Outside rear view mirrors. Opening and closing the windows Power windows CAMRY HV EE. Key information Keys The keys The following keys are provided with the vehicle. Electronic keys cid Operating the smart entry start system P. cid Operating the wireless remote control function P. Mechanical keys Key number plate Wireless remote control Locks all the doors P. Closes the windows P. Unlocks all the doors P. Opens the windows P. Opens the trunk P. This setting must be customized at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Key information Using the mechanical key To take out the mechanical key slide the release lever and take the key out. The mechanical key can only be inserted in one direction as the key only has grooves on one side. If the key cannot be inserted in a lock cylinder turn it over and re attempt to insert it. After using the mechanical key store it in the electronic key. Carry the mechanical key together with the electronic key. If the electronic key bat tery is depleted or the entry function does not operate properly you will need the mechanical key. P. When required to leave the vehicle s key with a parking attendant Lock the glove box as circumstances demand. P. Remove the mechanical key for your own use and provide the attendant with the electronic key only. If you lose your keys New genuine keys can be made by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer using the other mechanical key and the key number stamped on your key number plate. Keep the plate in a safe place such as your wallet not in the vehicle. When riding in an aircraft When bringing an electronic key onto an aircraft make sure you do not press any button on the electronic key while inside the aircraft cabin. If you are car rying an electronic key in your bag etc. ensure that the buttons are not likely to be pressed accidentally. Pressing a button may cause the electronic key to emit radio waves that could interfere with the operation of the aircraft. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Key information Conditions affecting operation P. Electronic key battery depletion The standard battery life is to years. If the battery becomes low an alarm will sound in the cabin when the hybrid system stops. As the electronic key always receives radio waves the battery will become depleted even if the electronic key is not used. The following symptoms indi cate that the electronic key battery may be depleted. Replace the battery when necessary. P. cid The smart entry start system or the wireless remote control does not operate. cid The detection area becomes smaller. cid The LED indicator on the key surface does not turn on. To reduce key battery depletion when the electronic key is to not be used for long periods of time set the electronic key to the battery saving mode. P. To avoid serious deterioration do not leave the electronic key within m ft. of the following electrical appliances that produce a magnetic field cid TVs cid Personal computers cid Cellular phones cordless phones and battery chargers cid Recharging cellular phones or cordless phones cid Table lamps cid Induction cookers Replacing the battery P. Confirmation of the registered key number The number of keys already registered to the vehicle can be confirmed. Ask any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer for details. If a wrong key is used The key cylinder rotates freely to isolate inside mechanism. CAMRY HV EE. Key information NOTICE To prevent key damage Do not drop the keys subject them to strong shocks or bend them. Do not expose the keys to high temperatures for long periods of time. Do not get the keys wet or wash them in an ultrasonic washer etc. Do not attach metallic or magnetic materials to the keys or place the keys close to such materials. Do not disassemble the keys. Do not attach a sticker or anything else to the surface of the electronic key. Do not place the keys near objects that produce magnetic fields such as TVs audio systems and induction cookers or medical electrical equip ment such as low frequency therapy equipment. Carrying the electronic key on your person Carry the electronic key cm. in. or more away from electric appli ances that are turned on. Radio waves emitted from electric appliances within cm. in. of the electronic key may interfere with the key caus ing the key to not function properly. In case of a smart entry start system malfunction or other key related problems Take your vehicle with all the electronic keys provided with your vehicle to any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. When an electronic key is lost If the electronic key remains lost the risk of vehicle theft increases signifi cantly. Visit any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately with all remaining electronic keys that were provided with your vehicle. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors Doors Unlocking and locking the doors from the outside Smart entry start system Carry the electronic key to enable this function. Grip the front door handle to unlock all the doors. Make sure to touch the sensor on the back of the handle. The doors cannot be unlocked for seconds after the doors are locked. The door unlock settings can be changed. P. Touch the lock sensor the indentation on the side of the front door handle to lock the doors. Check that the door is securely locked. Wireless remote control Locks all the doors Check that the door is securely locked. Press and hold to close the win dows Unlocks all the doors Press and hold to open the win dows This setting must be customized at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors Operation signals Doors The emergency flashers flash to indicate that the doors have been locked unlocked. Locked Once Unlocked Twice Windows A buzzer sounds to indicate that the windows are operating. Security feature If a door is not opened within approximately seconds after the vehicle is unlocked the security feature automatically locks the vehicle again. When the door cannot be locked by the lock sensor on the surface of the door handle When the door cannot be locked even if the lock sensor on the surface of the door handle is touched by a finger touch the lock sensor with the palm. When gloves are being worn remove the gloves. Door lock buzzer If an attempt to lock the doors is made when a door is not fully closed a buzzer sounds continuously. Fully close the door to stop the buzzer and lock the vehicle once more. Setting the alarm if equipped Locking the doors will set the alarm system. P. If the smart entry start system or the wireless remote control does not operate properly Use the mechanical key to lock and unlock the doors. P. Replace the battery with a new one if it is depleted. P. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors Unlocking and locking the doors from the inside Door lock switches Locks all the doors Unlocks all the doors Inside lock buttons Locks the door Unlocks the door The driver s door can be opened by pulling the inside handle even if the lock buttons are in the lock position. Locking the front doors from the outside without a key Move the inside lock button to the lock position. Close the door while pulling the door handle. The door cannot be locked if the power switch is in ACCESSORY or ON mode or the electronic key is left inside the vehicle. The key may not be detected correctly and the door may be locked. CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors Rear door child protector lock The door cannot be opened from inside the vehicle when the lock is set. Unlock Lock These locks can be set to prevent children from opening the rear doors. Push down on each rear door switch to lock both rear doors. Automatic door locking and unlocking systems if equipped The following functions can be set or canceled For instructions on customizing refer to P Function Operation All doors are automatically locked Speed linked door locking function when vehicle speed is approxi mately km h mph or higher. Shift position linked door locking All doors are automatically locked function when shifting the shift lever out of P. Shift position linked door unlocking All doors are automatically unlocked function when shifting the shift lever to P. Driver s door linked door unlocking All doors are automatically unlocked function when driver s door is opened. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors Switching the door unlock function It is possible to set which doors the entry function unlocks using the wireless remote control. Turn the power switch off. When the indicator light on the key surface is not on press and hold or for approximately seconds while pressing and holding. The setting changes each time an operation is performed as shown below. When changing the setting continuously release the buttons wait for at least seconds and repeat step. Multi information Unlocking doors Beep display Holding the driver s door handle unlocks only the Left hand drive driver s door. vehicles Exterior Beeps times Interior Pings once Holding the front passen ger s door handle unlocks Right hand drive all the doors. vehicles Holding either front door Exterior Beeps twice handle unlocks all the doors. Interior Pings once Vehicles with an alarm To prevent unintended triggering of the alarm unlock the doors using the wireless remote control and open and close a door once after the settings have been changed. If a door is not opened within sec onds after is pressed the doors will be locked again and the alarm will automatically be set. In case that the alarm is triggered immediately stop the alarm. P. CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors Impact detection door lock release system In the event that the vehicle is subject to a strong impact all the doors are unlocked. Depending on the force of the impact or the type of accident how ever the system may not operate. Open door warning buzzer If the vehicle reaches a speed of km h mph the master warning light flashes and a buzzer sounds to indicate that the door s are not yet fully closed. The open door s is displayed on the multi information display. Using the mechanical key The doors can also be locked and unlocked with the mechanical key. P. Conditions affecting the operation of the smart entry start system or wireless remote control P. Customization Some functions can be customized. P. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors WARNING To prevent an accident Observe the following precautions while driving the vehicle. Failure to do so may result in a door opening and an occupant falling out resulting in death or serious injury. Ensure that all doors are properly closed and locked. Do not pull the inside handle of the doors while driving. Be especially careful with the driver s door as the door s may be opened even if the inside lock buttons are in locked position. Set the rear door child protector locks when children are seated in the rear seats. When opening or closing a door Check the surroundings of the vehicle such as whether the vehicle is on an incline whether there is enough space for a door to open and whether a strong wind is blowing. When opening or closing the door hold the door handle tightly to prepare for any unpredictable movement. When using the wireless remote control and operating the power win dows Operate the power windows after checking to make sure that there is no possibility of any passenger having any of their body parts caught in the windows. Also do not allow children to operate the wireless remote control. It is possible for children and other passengers to get caught in the power windows. CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors Trunk The trunk can be opened using the trunk opener switch entry function or wireless remote control. Opening the trunk from inside the vehicle Press and hold the trunk opener switch. Left hand drive vehicles Right hand drive vehicles Opening the trunk from outside the vehicle Smart entry start system While carrying the electronic key press the button on the trunk lid. When both side doors are unlocked using one of the fol lowing methods the trunk can be opened without the electronic key cid Entry function cid Wireless remote control cid Door lock switches cid Automatic door unlocking system cid Mechanical key CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors Wireless remote control Press and hold the switch. When closing the trunk Using the trunk grip lower the trunk without applying force to the side and push the trunk down from the outside to close it. Trunk light The trunk light turns on when the trunk is opened. Function to prevent the trunk being locked with the electronic key inside When all doors are locked closing the trunk lid with the electronic key left inside the trunk will sound an alarm. In this case the trunk lid can be opened by pressing the trunk release but ton on the trunk lid. If the spare electronic key is put in the trunk with all the doors locked the key confinement prevention function is activated so the trunk can be opened. In order to prevent theft take all electronic keys with you when leaving the vehicle. If the electronic key is put in the trunk with all the doors locked the key may not be detected depending on the location of the key and the surrounding radio wave conditions. In this case the key confinement prevention function cannot be activated causing the doors to lock when the trunk is closed. Make sure to check where the key is before closing the trunk. The key confinement prevention function cannot be activated if any one of the doors is unlocked. In this case open the trunk using the trunk opener. CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors Open trunk warning buzzer If the vehicle reaches a speed of km h mph the master warning light flashes and a buzzer sounds to indicate that the trunk is not yet fully closed. If the smart entry start system or the wireless remote control does not operate properly Use the mechanical key to unlock the trunk. P. Replace the key battery with a new one if it is depleted. P. Customization Some functions can be customized. P. WARNING Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. Before driving Make sure that the trunk lid is fully closed. If the trunk lid is not fully closed it may open unexpectedly while driving and hit near by objects or luggage in the trunk may be thrown out causing an accident. Do not allow children to play in the trunk. If a child is accidentally locked in the trunk they could suffer from heat exhaustion suffocation or other injuries. Do not allow a child to open or close the trunk lid. Doing so may cause the trunk lid to open unexpectedly or cause the child s hands head or neck to be caught by the closing trunk lid. Important points while driving Never let anyone sit in the trunk. In the event of sudden braking or a colli sion they are susceptible to death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors WARNING Using the trunk Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may cause parts of the body to be caught resulting in seri ous injury. Remove any heavy loads such as snow and ice from the trunk lid before opening it. Failure to do so may cause the trunk lid to suddenly shut again after it is opened. When opening or closing the trunk lid thoroughly check to make sure the surrounding area is safe. If anyone is in the vicinity make sure they are safe and let them know that the trunk is about to open or close. Use caution when opening or closing the trunk lid in windy weather as it may move abruptly in strong wind. On an incline it is more difficult to open or close the trunk lid than on a level surface so beware of the trunk lid unexpectedly opening or closing by itself. Make sure that the trunk lid is fully open and secure before using the trunk. When opening the trunk lid take care so that it does not hit anyone in the face or any other part of the body. When closing the trunk lid take extra care to prevent your fingers etc. from being caught. When closing the trunk lid make sure to press it lightly on its outer surface. If the trunk handle is used to fully close the trunk lid it may result in hands or arms being caught. Do not attach any accessories other than genuine Toyota parts to the trunk lid. Such additional weight on the trunk lid may cause the lid to suddenly shut again after it is opened. CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors Smart entry start system The following operations can be performed simply by carrying the electronic key on your person for example in your pocket. The driver should always carry the electronic key. Locks and unlocks the doors P. Opens the trunk P. Starts the hybrid system P. Antenna location Antennas outside the cabin Antennas inside the cabin Antenna inside the trunk Antenna outside the trunk CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors Effective range areas within which the electronic key is detected When locking or unlocking the doors The system can be operated when the electronic key is within about. m. ft. of either of the front outside door handles. Only the doors detecting the key can be operated. When starting the hybrid system or changing power switch modes The system can be operated when the electronic key is inside the vehicle. When opening the trunk The system can be operated when the electronic key is within about. m. ft. of the trunk release button. Alarms and warning indicators A combination of exterior and interior alarms as well as warning messages shown on the multi information display are used to prevent theft of the vehicle and accidents resulting from erroneous operation. Take appropriate mea sures in response to any warning message on the multi information display. P. When only an alarm sounds circumstances and correction procedures are as follows. Alarm Situation Correction procedure An attempt was made Close all of the doors to lock the vehicle while and lock the doors a door was open. again. Exterior alarm sounds The trunk was closed once for seconds while the electronic key Retrieve the electronic was still inside the trunk key from the trunk and and all the doors were close the trunk lid. locked. CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors Alarm Situation Correction procedure The power switch was turned to ACCESSORY mode while the driver s Turn the power switch door was open The off and close the driver s door was Interior alarm pings opened when the driver s door. repeatedly power switch was in ACCESSORY mode. The power switch was turned off while the Close the driver s door. driver s door was open. Battery saving function The battery saving function will be activated in order to prevent the electronic key battery and the volt battery from being discharged while the vehicle is not in operation for a long time. In the following situations the smart entry start system may take some time to unlock the doors. cid The electronic key has been left in an area of approximately m ft. of the outside of the vehicle for minutes or longer. cid The smart entry start system has not been used for days or longer. If the smart entry start system has not been used for days or longer the doors cannot be unlocked at any doors except the driver s door. In this case take hold of the driver s door handle or use the wireless remote con trol or the mechanical key to unlock the doors. Electronic Key Battery Saving Function When battery saving mode is set battery depletion is minimized by stopping the electronic key from receiving radio waves. Press twice while pressing and holding. Confirm that the electronic key indicator flashes times. While the battery saving mode is set the smart entry start system cannot be used. To cancel the function press any of the electronic key buttons. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors Conditions affecting operation The smart entry start system wireless remote control and immobilizer sys tem use weak radio waves. In the following situations the communication between the electronic key and the vehicle may be affected preventing the smart entry start system wireless remote control and immobilizer system from operating properly. Ways of coping P. When the electronic key battery is depleted Near a TV tower electric power plant gas station radio station large dis play airport or other facility that generates strong radio waves or electrical noise When the electronic key is in contact with or is covered by the following metallic objects cid Cards to which aluminum foil is attached cid Cigarette boxes that have aluminum foil inside cid Metallic wallets or bags cid Coins cid Hand warmers made of metal cid Media such as CDs and DVDs When other wireless keys that emit radio waves are being used nearby When carrying the electronic key together with the following devices that emit radio waves cid Portable radio cellular phone cordless phone or other wireless commu nication devices cid Another vehicle s electronic key another electronic key of your vehicle or a wireless key that emits radio waves cid Personal computers or personal digital assistants PDAs cid Digital audio players cid Portable game systems If window tint with a metallic content or metallic objects are attached to the rear window When the electronic key is placed near a battery charger or electronic devices When the vehicle is parked in a pay parking spot where radio waves are emitted. CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors Note for the entry function Even when the electronic key is within the effective range detection areas the system may not operate properly in the following cases cid The electronic key is too close to the window or outside door handle near the ground or in a high place when the doors are locked or unlocked. cid The electronic key is near the ground or in a high place or too close to the rear bumper center when the trunk is opened. cid The electronic key is on the instrument panel rear package tray or floor or in the door pockets or glove box when the hybrid system is started or power switch modes are changed. Do not leave the electronic key on top of the instrument panel or near the door pockets when exiting the vehicle. Depending on the radio wave recep tion conditions it may be detected by the antenna outside the cabin and the door will become lockable from the outside possibly trapping the electronic key inside the vehicle. As long as the electronic key is within the effective range the doors may be locked or unlocked by anyone. However only the doors detecting the elec tronic key can be used to unlock the vehicle. Even if the electronic key is not inside the vehicle it may be possible to start the hybrid system if the electronic key is near the window. The doors may unlock or lock if a large amount of water splashes on the door handle such as in the rain or in a car wash when the electronic key is within the effective range. The doors will automatically be locked after approximately seconds if the doors are not opened and closed. If the wireless remote control is used to lock the doors when the electronic key is near the vehicle there is a possibility that the door may not be unlocked by the entry function. Use the wireless remote control to unlock the doors. Touching the door lock sensor while wearing gloves may delay or prevent lock operation. Remove the gloves and touch the lock sensor again. When the lock operation is performed using the lock sensor recognition sig nals will be shown up to two consecutive times. After this no recognition signals will be given. If the door handle becomes wet while the electronic key is within the effec tive range the door may lock and unlock repeatedly. In this case follow the following correction procedures to wash the vehicle cid Place the electronic key in a location m ft. or more away from the vehicle. Take care to ensure that the key is not stolen. cid Set the electronic key to battery saving mode to disable the smart entry start system. P. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors If the electronic key is inside the vehicle and a door handle becomes wet during a car wash a message may be shown on the multi information dis play and a buzzer will sound outside the vehicle. To turn off the alarm lock all the doors. The lock sensor may not work properly if it comes into contact with ice snow mud etc. Clean the lock sensor and attempt to operate it again. A sudden approach to the effective range or door handle may prevent the doors from being unlocked. In this case return the door handle to the origi nal position and check that the doors unlock before pulling the door handle again. If there is another electronic key in the detection area it may take slightly longer to unlock the doors after the door handle is gripped. Fingernails may scrape against the door during operation of the door han dle. Be careful not to injure fingernails or damage the surface of the door. This setting can be customized at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. When the vehicle is not driven for extended periods To prevent theft of the vehicle do not leave the electronic key within m ft. of the vehicle. The smart entry start system can be deactivated in advance. P. Setting the electronic key to battery saving mode helps to reduce key bat tery depletion. P. To operate the system properly Make sure to carry the electronic key when operating the system. Do not get the electronic key too close to the vehicle when operating the system from the outside of the vehicle. Depending on the position and holding condition of the electronic key the key may not be detected correctly and the system may not operate properly. The alarm may go off accidentally or the door lock prevention function may not operate. If the smart entry start system does not operate properly Locking and unlocking the doors and trunk Use the mechanical key. P. Starting the hybrid system P. Customization Some functions can be customized. P. If the smart entry start system has been deactivated in a customized setting Locking and unlocking the doors and opening the trunk Use the wireless remote control or mechanical key. P. Starting the hybrid system and changing power switch modes P. Stopping the hybrid system P. CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors Certification for the smart entry start system CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening closing and locking the doors CAMRY HV EE. Opening closing and locking the doors WARNING Caution regarding interference with electronic devices People with implantable cardiac pacemakers cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemakers or implantable cardioverter defibrillators should keep away from the smart entry start system antennas. P. The radio waves may affect the operation of such devices. If necessary the entry function can be disabled. Ask any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer for details such as the frequency of radio waves and timing of the emitted radio waves. Then consult your doctor to see if you should disable the entry function. Users of any electrical medical device other than implantable cardiac pacemakers cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemakers or implantable cardioverter defibrillators should consult the manufacturer of the device for information about its operation under the influence of radio waves. Radio waves could have unexpected effects on the operation of such medical devices. Ask any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reli able repairer for details for disabling the entry function. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Adjusting the seats Front seats Adjustment procedure Manual seat Seat position adjustment lever Seatback angle adjustment lever Vertical height adjustment lever Power seat Seat position adjustment switch Seatback angle adjustment switch Seat cushion front angle adjustment switch Vertical height adjustment switch Lumbar support adjustment switch CAMRY HV EE. Adjusting the seats WARNING When adjusting the seat position Take care when adjusting the seat position to ensure that other passen gers are not injured by the moving seat. Do not put your hands under the seat or near the moving parts to avoid injury. Fingers or hands may become jammed in the seat mechanism. Make sure to leave enough space around the feet so they do not get stuck. Seat adjustment Be careful that the seat does not hit passengers or luggage. To reduce the risk of sliding under the lap belt during a collision do not recline the seat more than necessary. If the seat is too reclined the lap belt may slide past the hips and apply restraint forces directly to the abdomen or your neck may contact the shoulder belt increasing the risk of death or serious injury in the event of an accident. Adjustments should not be made while driving as the seat may unexpect edly move and cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. Manual seat only After adjusting the seat make sure that the seat is locked in position. NOTICE When adjusting a front seat When adjusting a front seat make sure that the head restraint does not contact the headliner. Otherwise the head restraint and headliner may be damaged. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Adjusting the seats Rear seats Folding type The seatbacks of the rear seats can be folded down. Reclining type The seatbacks of the rear seats can be adjusted to a comfortable position. Folding down the rear seatbacks folding type Pull the seatback lever in the trunk for the seatback you wish to fold down and then fold the seatback down. CAMRY HV EE. Adjusting the seats Adjusting seatback angle reclining type Press to display the but tons and then touch or. The seatback moves as long as the button is touched and held. To move forward To move backward Customization reclining type Changing the settings of the rear control panel P. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Adjusting the seats WARNING When folding the seatbacks down folding type Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. Do not fold the seatbacks down while driving. Stop the vehicle on level ground set the parking brake and shift the shift lever to P. Do not allow anyone to sit on a folded seatback or in the trunk while driv ing. Do not allow children to enter the trunk. When returning the seat to its original position folding type Ensure that the seat belt does not get caught between or behind the seats. If the seat belt has been released from its guide pass the seat belt through its guide. P. Seat adjustment Reclining type To reduce the risk of sliding under the lap belt during a col lision do not recline the seat more than necessary. If the seat is too reclined the lap belt may slide past the hips and apply restraint forces directly to the abdomen or your neck may contact the shoulder belt increasing the risk of death or serious injury in the event of an accident. Adjustments should not be made while driving as the seat may unexpect edly move and cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. Folding type Be careful not to get hands or feet pinched between the rear console box and the rear seat when folding down the rear seatback. After returning the seatback to the upright position folding type Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. Make sure the seatback is securely locked by pressing it forward and rear ward on the top. Check that the seat belts are not twisted or caught in the seatback. Make sure that the seat belt is passed through its guide. NOTICE When the right seatback is folded down folding type Make sure the luggage loaded in the enlarged trunk will not damage the webbing of the rear center seat belt. CAMRY HV EE. Adjusting the seats Head restraints Head restraints are provided for all seats. Adjustable type Up Pull the head restraint up. Down Push the head restraint down while pressing the lock release button. Lock release button Integrated type Head restraints cannot be adjusted or removed. Removing the head restraints Pull the head restraint up while pressing the lock release button. Front seats If the head restraint touches the ceiling making the removal difficult change the seat height or angle. Lock P. release button CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Adjusting the seats Installing the head restraints Front seats and reclining type rear outboard seats Align the head restraint with the installa tion holes and push it down to the lock position. Press and hold the lock release button when lowering the head restraint. Lock release button Reclining type rear center seat and outboard seats of the rear folding seat Align the head restraint with the installa tion holes and push it down to the lowest lock position while pressing the lock release button. Lock release button Adjusting the height of the head restraints front seats and reclining type rear outboard seats Make sure that the head restraints are adjusted so that the center of the head restraint is closest to the top of your ears. Adjusting the rear seat head restraint except reclining type rear out board seats Always raise the head restraint one level from the stowed position when using. CAMRY HV EE. Adjusting the seats WARNING Head restraint precautions Observe the following precautions regarding the head restraints. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. Use the head restraints designed for each respective seat. Adjust the head restraints to the correct position at all times. After adjusting the head restraints push down on them and make sure they are locked in position. Do not drive with the head restraints removed. However if a head restraint interferes with installation of a child restraint system the head restraint can be removed to accommodate the child restraint system P. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Adjusting the steering wheel and mirrors Steering wheel Adjustment procedure Manual type Hold the steering wheel and push the lever down. Adjust to the ideal position by moving the steering wheel hori zontally and vertically. After adjustment pull the lever up to secure the steering wheel. Power type Operating the switch moves the steering wheel in the following direc tions Up Down Toward the driver Away from the driver CAMRY HV EE. Adjusting the steering wheel and mirrors Auto tilt away power type When the power switch is turned off the steering wheel returns to its stowed position by moving up and away to enable easier driver entry and exit. Turning the power switch to ACCESSORY or ON mode will return the steering wheel to the original position. Horn To sound the horn press on or close to the mark. The steering wheel can be adjusted when power type The power switch is in ACCESSORY or ON mode. Customization Some functions can be customized. P. WARNING Caution while driving Do not adjust the steering wheel while driving. Doing so may cause the driver to mishandle the vehicle and cause an acci dent resulting in death or serious injury. After adjusting the steering wheel manual type Make sure that the steering wheel is securely locked. Otherwise the steering wheel may move suddenly possibly causing an accident and resulting in death or serious injury. Also the horn may not sound if the steering wheel is not securely locked. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Adjusting the steering wheel and mirrors Inside rear view mirror The rear view mirror s position can be adjusted to enable suffi cient confirmation of the rear view. Adjusting the height of rear view mirror The height of the rear view mirror can be adjusted to suit your driving posture. Adjust the height of the rear view mirror by moving it up and down. Anti glare function Manual anti glare inside rear view mirror Reflected light from the headlights of vehicles behind can be reduced by operating the lever. Normal position Anti glare position CAMRY HV EE. Adjusting the steering wheel and mirrors Auto anti glare inside rear view mirror Responding to the level of brightness of the headlights of vehicles behind the reflected light is automatically reduced. Changing automatic anti glare function mode On off When the automatic anti glare function is in ON mode the indica tor illuminates. The function will set to ON mode Indicator each time the power switch is turned to ON mode. Pressing the button turns the func tion to OFF mode. The indicator also turns off. To prevent sensor error vehicles with an auto anti glare inside rear view mirror To ensure that the sensors operate prop erly do not touch or cover them. WARNING Do not adjust the position of the mirror while driving. Doing so may lead to mishandling of the vehicle and cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Adjusting the steering wheel and mirrors Outside rear view mirrors Adjustment procedure To select a mirror to adjust turn the switch. Left Right To adjust the mirror operate the switch. Up Right Down Left Folding and extending the mirrors Folds the mirrors Extends the mirrors CAMRY HV EE. Adjusting the steering wheel and mirrors Mirror angle can be adjusted when The power switch is in ACCESSORY or ON mode. Rain clearing mirrors if equipped Water droplets that have collected on the mirror surface are spread out by a coating that has a rain clearing hydrophilic effect making the rear view clearer during rainy weather. When dirt dust etc. collect on the mirror surface the rain clearing effect will be temporarily reduced however the mirrors have a function that will chemi cally break down any dirt dust etc. that is attached to it with exposure to direct sunlight gradually restoring the rain clearing effect. In the following cases the rain clearing effect will be reduced temporarily but will gradually be restored after or days exposure to direct sunlight during sunny weather. If it is desirable to restore the function quickly per form the rain clearing effect restoration operations. P. cid When dirt or foreign items are on the mirror surface a bare hand has touched the mirror surface the mirror surface has been wiped by a dirty cloth etc. cid When detergent or wax is attached to the mirror surface due to washing your vehicle cid After your vehicle has been parked for a long period in an underground parking lot or location where there is no direct sunlight Take extra care in the following situations. The rain clearing effect cannot be restored. cid When car maintenance products that contain silicon touch the mirror sur face cid When the mirror has been scratched When the mirrors are fogged up The outside rear view mirrors can be cleared using the mirror defoggers. Turn on the rear window defogger to turn on the outside rear view mirror defog gers. P. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Adjusting the steering wheel and mirrors WARNING Important points while driving Observe the following precautions while driving. Failing to do so may result in loss of control of the vehicle and cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury. Do not adjust the mirrors while driving. Do not drive with the mirrors folded. Both the driver and passenger side mirrors must be extended and properly adjusted before driving. When a mirror is moving To avoid personal injury and mirror malfunction be careful not to get your hand caught by the moving mirror. When the mirror defoggers are operating Do not touch the rear view mirror surfaces as they can become very hot and burn you. NOTICE Handling of the rain clearing mirrors if equipped The rain clearing effect is finite. Observe the following precautions in order to retain the rain clearing properties of the mirrors When using water repellent oil film remover wax or any other car mainte nance product that contains silicone pay full attention not to adhere it to the mirror surface. Do not wipe the mirror surface by using any cloth smeared with sand oil film remover abrasive agent or any other thing that may scratch the mir ror surface. When the mirrors become iced up remove the ice by applying warm water. But do not attempt to scrape the ice off by using the plastic plate etc. When washing your vehicle using car shampoo with water repellent effect rinse the mirror surface with a lot of water and remove the water drops by using a clean and soft cloth. CAMRY HV EE. Opening and closing the windows Power windows Opening and closing procedures The power windows can be opened and closed using the switches. Operating the switch moves the windows as follows Closing One touch closing Opening One touch opening To stop the window partway oper ate the switch in the opposite direc tion. Window lock switch Press the switch to lock the pas senger window switches. Use this switch to prevent children from accidentally opening or clos ing a passenger window. The power windows can be operated when The power switch is in ON mode. Operating the power windows after turning the hybrid system off The power windows can be operated for approximately seconds even after the power switch is turned to ACCESSORY mode or turned off. They cannot however be operated once either front door is opened. Jam protection function If an object becomes jammed between the window and the window frame while the window is closing window movement is stopped and the window is opened slightly. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening and closing the windows Catch protection function If an object becomes caught between the door and window while the window is opening window movement is stopped. When the window cannot be opened or closed When the jam protection function or catch protection function operates unusually and the door window cannot be opened or closed perform the fol lowing operations with the power window switch of that door. Stop the vehicle. With the power switch in ON mode within seconds of the jam protection function or catch protection function activating continuously operate the power window switch in the one touch closing direction or one touch opening direction so that the door window can be opened and closed. If the door window cannot be opened and closed even when performing the above operations perform the following procedure for function initialization. Turn the power switch to ON mode. Pull and hold the power window switch in the one touch closing direction and completely close the door window. Release the power window switch for a moment resume pulling the switch in the one touch closing direction and hold it there for approxi mately seconds or more. Press and hold the power window switch in the one touch opening direc tion. After the door window is completely opened continue holding the switch for an additional second or more. Release the power window switch for a moment resume pushing the switch in the one touch opening direction and hold it there for approxi mately seconds or more. Pull and hold the power window switch in the one touch closing direction again. After the door window is completely closed continue holding the switch for a further second or more. If you release the switch while the window is moving start again from the beginning. If the window reverses and cannot be fully closed or opened have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Opening and closing the windows Door lock linked window operation The power windows can be opened and closed using the mechanical key. P. The power windows can be opened and closed using the wireless remote control. P. These settings must be customized at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Alarm if equipped The alarm may be triggered if the alarm is set and a power window is closed using the door lock linked power window operation function. P. Power windows open warning buzzer A buzzer sounds and a message is shown on the multi information display in the instrument cluster when the power switch is turned off and the driver s door is opened with the power windows open. Customization Some functions can be customized. P. CAMRY HV EE Operation of each component. Opening and closing the windows WARNING Observe the following precautions. Failing to do so may result in death or serious injury. Opening and closing the windows The driver is responsible for all the power window operations including the operation for the passengers. In order to prevent accidental operation especially by a child do not let a child operate the power windows. It is possible for children and other passengers to have body parts caught in the power window. Also when riding with a child it is recommended to use the window lock switch. P. Check to make sure that all passengers do not have any part of their body in a position where it could be caught when a window is being operated. When using the wireless remote control or mechanical key and operating the power windows operate the power window after checking to make sure that there is no possibility of any passenger having any of their body parts caught in the window. Also do not let a child operate window by the wireless remote control or mechanical key. It is possible for children and other passengers to get caught in the power window. When exiting the vehicle turn the power switch off carry the key and exit the vehicle along with the child. There may be accidental operation due to mischief etc. that may possibly lead to an accident. Jam protection function Never use any part of your body to intentionally activate the jam protection function. The jam protection function may not work if something gets jammed just before the window is fully closed. Be careful not to get any part of your body jammed in the window. Catch protection function Never use any part of your body or clothing to intentionally activate the catch protection function. The catch protection function may not work if something gets caught just before the window is fully opened. Be careful not to get any part of your body or clothing caught in the window. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Before driving. Using the driving Driving the vehicle support systems Cargo and luggage Toyota Safety Sense Trailer towing PCS Pre Collision System. Driving procedures LDA Power ignition switch Lane Departure Alert EV drive mode with steering control Hybrid transmission RSA Turn signal lever Road Sign Assist Parking brake Dynamic radar cruise Brake Hold control with full speed. Operating the lights range and wipers Driving assist systems Headlight switch BSM Automatic High Beam Blind Spot Monitor Fog light switch cid BSM function Windshield wipers and cid RCTA function washer Toyota parking. Refueling assist sensor Opening the fuel tank Intelligent Clearance cap Sonar ICS Driving mode select switches. Driving tips Hybrid vehicle driving tips Winter driving tips CAMRY HV EE. Before driving Driving the vehicle The following procedures should be observed to ensure safe driving Starting the hybrid system P. Driving With the brake pedal depressed shift the shift lever to D. P. Release the parking brake. P. Gradually release the brake pedal and gently depress the accelera tor pedal to accelerate the vehicle. Stopping With the shift lever in D depress the brake pedal. If necessary set the parking brake. If the vehicle is to be stopped for an extended period of time shift the shift lever to P. P. Parking the vehicle With the shift lever in D depress the brake pedal. Set the parking brake P. and shift the shift lever to P P Press the power switch to stop the hybrid system. Lock the door making sure that you have the key on your person. If parking on a hill block the wheels as needed. Starting off on a steep uphill Make sure that the parking brake is set and shift the shift lever to D. Gently depress the accelerator pedal. Release the parking brake. CAMRY HV EE. Before driving When starting off on an uphill The hill start assist control will activate. P. For fuel efficient driving Keep in mind that hybrid vehicles are similar to conventional vehicles and it is necessary to refrain from activities such as sudden acceleration. P. Coasting Auto Glide Control When Eco drive mode is selected under certain conditions Auto Glide Con trol will operate automatically and allow the vehicle coast enhancing fuel economy. P. Driving in the rain Drive carefully when it is raining because visibility will be reduced the win dows may become fogged up and the road will be slippery. Drive carefully when it starts to rain because the road surface will be espe cially slippery. Refrain from high speeds when driving on an expressway in the rain because there may be a layer of water between the tires and the road sur face preventing the steering and brakes from operating properly. Restraining hybrid system output Brake Override System When the accelerator and brake pedals are depressed at the same time the hybrid system output may be restrained. A warning message is displayed on the multi information display while the system is operating. ECO Accelerator Guidance P. Eco friendly driving may be achieved more easily by staying within the zone of Eco acceleration. Also by staying within the zone of Eco acceleration it will be easier to obtain a good Eco score. When starting off Gradually depress the accelerator pedal to stay within the zone of Eco acceleration and accelerate to the desired speed. By refraining from exces sive acceleration a good eco start score will be obtained. When driving After accelerating to the desired speed release the accelerator pedal and drive at a stable speed while staying within the zone of Eco acceleration. By staying within the zone of Eco acceleration a good eco cruise score will be obtained. When stopping By starting to release the accelerator pedal early before decelerating a good eco stop score will be obtained. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Before driving Restraining sudden start Drive Start Control When the following unusual operation is performed the hybrid system out put may be restrained. cid When the shift lever is shifted from R to D D to R N to R P to D or P to R D includes S with the accelerator pedal depressed a warning mes sage appears on the multi information display. cid When the accelerator pedal is depressed too much while the vehicle is in reverse. While Drive Start Control is being activated your vehicle may have trouble escaping from the mud or fresh snow. In such case deactivate TRC P. to cancel Drive Start Control so that the vehicle may become able to escape from the mud or fresh snow. Breaking in your new Toyota To extend the life of the vehicle observing the following precautions is recom mended For the first km miles Avoid sudden stops. For the first km miles cid Do not drive at extremely high speeds. cid Avoid sudden acceleration. cid Do not drive continuously in low gears. cid Do not drive at a constant speed for extended periods. Operating your vehicle in a foreign country Comply with the relevant vehicle registration laws and confirm the availability of the correct fuel. P. Eco friendly driving P. CAMRY HV EE. Before driving WARNING Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. When starting the vehicle Always keep your foot on the brake pedal while stopped with the READY indicator is illuminated. This prevents the vehicle from creeping. When driving the vehicle Do not drive if you are unfamiliar with the location of the brake and accel erator pedals to avoid depressing the wrong pedal. cid Accidentally depressing the accelerator pedal instead of the brake pedal will result in sudden acceleration that may lead to an accident. cid When backing up you may twist your body around leading to a diffi culty in operating the pedals. Make sure to operate the pedals properly. cid Make sure to keep a correct driving posture even when moving the vehicle only slightly. This allows you to depress the brake and accelera tor pedals properly. cid Depress the brake pedal using your right foot. Depressing the brake pedal using your left foot may delay response in an emergency result ing in an accident. The driver should pay extra attention to pedestrians when the vehicle is powered only by the electric motor traction motor. As there is no engine noise the pedestrians may misjudge the vehicle s movement. Do not drive the vehicle over or stop the vehicle near flammable materials. The exhaust system and exhaust gases can be extremely hot. These hot parts may cause a fire if there is any flammable material nearby. During normal driving do not turn off the hybrid system. Turning the hybrid system off while driving will not cause loss of steering or braking control however power assist to the steering will be lost. This will make it more difficult to steer smoothly so you should pull over and stop the vehicle as soon as it is safe to do so. In the event of an emergency such as if it becomes impossible to stop the vehicle in the normal way P. Use engine braking downshift to maintain a safe speed when driving down a steep hill. Using the brakes continuously may cause the brakes to overheat and lose effectiveness. P. Do not adjust the display the positions of the steering wheel the seat or the inside or outside rear view mirrors while driving. Doing so may result in a loss of vehicle control. Always check that all passengers arms heads or other parts of their body are not outside the vehicle. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Before driving WARNING Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. When driving on slippery road surfaces Sudden braking acceleration and steering may cause tire slippage and reduce your ability to control the vehicle. Sudden acceleration engine braking due to shifting or changes in engine speed could cause the vehicle to skid. After driving through a puddle lightly depress the brake pedal to make sure that the brakes are functioning properly. Wet brake pads may prevent the brakes from functioning properly. If the brakes on only one side are wet and not functioning properly steering control may be affected. When shifting the shift lever Do not let the vehicle roll backward while the shift lever is in a driving posi tion or roll forward while the shift lever is in R. Doing so may result in an accident or damage to the vehicle. Do not shift the shift lever to P while the vehicle is moving. Doing so can damage the transmission and may result in a loss of vehicle control. Do not shift the shift lever to R while the vehicle is moving forward. Doing so can damage the transmission and may result in a loss of vehicle control. Do not shift the shift lever to a driving position while the vehicle is moving backward. Doing so can damage the transmission and may result in a loss of vehicle control. Shifting the shift lever to N while the vehicle is moving will disengage the hybrid system. Engine braking is not available when N is selected. Be careful not to shift the shift lever with the accelerator pedal depressed. Shifting the shift lever to any position other than P or N may lead to unex pected rapid acceleration of the vehicle that may cause an accident and result in death or serious injury. If you hear a squealing or scraping noise brake pad wear indicators Have the brake pads checked and replaced by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer as soon as possible. Rotor damage may result if the pads are not replaced when needed. It is dangerous to drive the vehicle when the wear limits of the brake pads and or those of the brake discs are exceeded. CAMRY HV EE. Before driving WARNING Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. When the vehicle is stopped Do not depress the accelerator pedal unnecessarily. If the shift lever is in any position other than P or N the vehicle may accel erate suddenly and unexpectedly causing an accident. In order to prevent accidents due to the vehicle rolling away always keep depressing the brake pedal while stopped with the READY indicator is illuminated and apply the parking brake as necessary. If the vehicle is stopped on an incline in order to prevent accidents caused by the vehicle rolling forward or backward always depress the brake pedal and securely apply the parking brake as needed. Avoid revving or racing the engine. Running the engine at high speed while the vehicle is stopped may cause the exhaust system to overheat which could result in a fire if combustible material is nearby. When the vehicle is parked Do not leave glasses cigarette lighters spray cans or soft drink cans in the vehicle when it is in the sun. Doing so may result in the following cid Gas may leak from a cigarette lighter or spray can and may lead to a fire. cid The temperature inside the vehicle may cause the plastic lenses and plastic material of glasses to deform or crack. cid Soft drink cans may fracture causing the contents to spray over the interior of the vehicle and may also cause a short circuit in the vehicle s electrical components. Do not leave cigarette lighters in the vehicle. If a cigarette lighter is in a place such as the glove box or on the floor it may be lit accidentally when luggage is loaded or the seat is adjusted causing a fire. Do not attach adhesive discs to the windshield or windows. Do not place containers such as air fresheners on the instrument panel or dashboard. Adhesive discs or containers may act as lenses causing a fire in the vehi cle. Do not leave a door or window open if the curved glass is coated with a metallized film such as a silver colored one. Reflected sunlight may cause the glass to act as a lens causing a fire. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Before driving WARNING Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. When the vehicle is parked Always apply the parking brake shift the shift lever to P stop the hybrid system and lock the vehicle. Do not leave the vehicle unattended while the READY indicator is illumi nated. If the vehicle is parked with the shift lever in P but the parking brake is not set the vehicle may start to move possibly leading to an accident. Do not touch the exhaust pipes while the READY indicator is illuminated or immediately after turning the hybrid system off. Doing so may cause burns. When taking a nap in the vehicle Always turn the hybrid system off. Otherwise if you accidentally move the shift lever or depress the accelerator pedal this could cause an accident or fire due to hybrid system overheating. Additionally if the vehicle is parked in a poorly ventilated area exhaust gases may collect and enter the vehicle leading to death or a serious health hazard. When braking When the brakes are wet drive more cautiously. Braking distance increases when the brakes are wet and this may cause one side of the vehicle to brake differently than the other side. Also the parking brake may not securely hold the vehicle. The brake system consists of or more individual hydraulic systems if one of the systems fails the other s will still operate. In this case the brake pedal should be depressed more firmly than usual and the braking distance will increase. Have your brakes fixed immediately. If the electronically controlled brake system does not operate do not fol low other vehicles closely and avoid hills or sharp turns that require brak ing. In this case braking is still possible but the brake pedal should be depressed more firmly than usual. Also the braking distance will increase. Have your brakes fixed immediately. CAMRY HV EE. Before driving NOTICE When driving the vehicle Do not depress the accelerator and brake pedals at the same time during driving as this may restrain the hybrid system output. Do not use the accelerator pedal or depress the accelerator and brake pedals at the same time to hold the vehicle on a hill. When parking the vehicle Always set the parking brake and shift the shift lever to P. Failure to do so may cause the vehicle to move or the vehicle may accelerate suddenly if the accelerator pedal is accidentally depressed. Avoiding damage to vehicle parts Do not turn the steering wheel fully in either direction and hold it there for an extended period of time. Doing so may damage the power steering motor. When driving over bumps on the road drive as slowly as possible to avoid damaging the wheels underside of the vehicle etc. If you get a flat tire while driving A flat or damaged tire may cause the following situations. Hold the steering wheel firmly and gradually depress the brake pedal to slow down the vehi cle. It may be difficult to control your vehicle. The vehicle will make abnormal sounds or vibrations. The vehicle will lean abnormally. Information on what to do in case of a flat tire P. When encountering flooded roads Do not drive on a road that has flooded after heavy rain etc. Doing so may cause the following serious damage to the vehicle Engine stalling Short in electrical components Engine damage caused by water immersion In the event that you drive on a flooded road and the vehicle is flooded be sure to have any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer check the following Brake function Changes in quantity and quality of oil and fluid used for the engine hybrid transmission etc. Lubricant condition for the bearings and suspension joints where possi ble and the function of all joints bearings etc. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Before driving Cargo and luggage Take notice of the following information about storage precau tions cargo capacity and load WARNING Things that must not be carried in the trunk The following things may cause a fire if loaded in the trunk Receptacles containing gasoline Aerosol cans Storage precautions Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may prevent the pedals from being depressed properly may block the driver s vision or may result in items hitting the driver or pas sengers possibly causing an accident. Stow cargo and luggage in the trunk whenever possible. Fold down type rear seat To prevent cargo and luggage from sliding for ward during braking do not stack anything in the enlarged trunk. Keep cargo and luggage low as close to the floor as possible. Do not place cargo or luggage in or on the following locations. cid At the feet of the driver cid On the front passenger or rear seats when stacking items cid On the package tray cid On the instrument panel cid On the dashboard Secure all items in the occupant compartment. Fold down type rear seat When you fold down the rear seats long items should not be placed directly behind the front seats. Fold down type rear seat Never allow anyone to ride in the enlarged trunk. It is not designed for passengers. They should ride in their seats with their seat belts properly fastened. Load and distribution Do not overload your vehicle. Do not apply loads unevenly. Improper loading may cause deterioration of steering or braking control which may cause death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE. Before driving Trailer towing Toyota does not recommend towing a trailer with your vehicle. Toyota also does not recommend the installation of a tow hitch or the use of a tow hitch carrier for a wheelchair scooter bicy cle etc. Your vehicle is not designed for trailer towing or for the use of tow hitch mounted carriers. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures Power ignition switch Performing the following operations when carrying the elec tronic key on your person starts the hybrid system or changes power switch modes. Starting the hybrid system Check that the parking brake is set. Check that the shift lever is in P. Firmly depress the brake pedal. and a message will be displayed on the multi information display. If it is not displayed the hybrid system cannot be started. Press the power switch shortly and firmly. When operating the power switch one short firm press is enough. It is not necessary to press and hold the switch. If the READY indicator turns on the hybrid system will operate nor mally. Continue depressing the brake pedal until the READY indicator is illuminated. The hybrid system can be started from any power switch mode. Check that the READY indicator is illuminated. The vehicle will not move when the READY indicator is off. Stopping the hybrid system Stop the vehicle completely. Set the parking brake P. and shift the shift lever to P. Press the power switch. Driving related data will be displayed on the multi information display. CAMRY HV EE. Driving procedures Changing power switch modes Modes can be changed by pressing the power switch with brake pedal released. The mode changes each time the switch is pressed. Off The emergency flashers can be used. ACCESSORY mode Some electrical components such as the audio system can be used. A message indicating how to start the hybrid system will be displayed on the multi information display. ON mode All electrical components can be used. A message indicating how to start the hybrid system will be displayed on the multi information display. If the shift lever is in a position other than P when turning off the hybrid sys tem the power switch will be turned to ACCESSORY mode not to off. When stopping the hybrid system with the shift lever in a posi tion other than P If the hybrid system is stopped with the shift lever in a position other than P the power switch will not be turned off but instead be turned to ACCESSORY mode. Perform the following procedure to turn the switch off Check that the parking brake is set. Shift the shift lever to P. Check that Turn Power OFF is displayed on the multi information display and then press the power switch once. Check that Turn Power OFF on the multi information display is turned off. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures Auto power off function If the vehicle is left in ACCESSORY mode for more than minutes or ON mode the hybrid system is not operating for more than an hour with the shift lever in P the power switch will automatically turn off. However this function cannot entirely prevent volt battery discharge. Do not leave the vehicle with the power switch in ACCESSORY or ON mode for long periods of time when the hybrid system is not operating. Sounds and vibrations specific to a hybrid vehicle P. Electronic key battery depletion P. When the ambient temperature is low such as during winter driving con ditions When starting the hybrid system the flashing time of the READY indicator may be long. Leave the vehicle as it is until the READY indicator is steady on as steady means the vehicle is able to move. Conditions affecting operation P. Notes for the entry function P. If the hybrid system does not start The immobilizer system may not have been deactivated. P. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Check that the shift lever is securely set in P. The hybrid system may not start if the shift lever is displaced out of P. If a message related to start up is shown on the multi information display read the message and follow the instructions. Steering lock After turning the power switch off and opening and closing the doors the steering wheel will be locked due to the steering lock function. Operating the power switch again automatically cancels the steering lock. When the steering lock cannot be released A message informing the driver that the steering wheel is locked will be displayed on the multi information display. Check that the shift lever is set in P. Press the power switch while turning the steer ing wheel left and right. CAMRY HV EE. Driving procedures Steering lock motor overheating prevention To prevent the steering lock motor from overheating the motor may be sus pended if the hybrid system is turned on and off repeatedly in a short period of time. In this case refrain from operating the hybrid system. After about seconds the steering lock motor will resume functioning. When a message requesting the smart entry start system be inspected is displayed on the multi information display The system may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle inspected by any autho rized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. If the READY indicator does not come on In the event that the READY indicator does not come on even after perform ing the proper procedures for starting the vehicle contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immedi ately. If the hybrid system is malfunctioning P. If the electronic key battery is depleted P. Operation of the power switch If the switch is not pressed shortly and firmly the power switch mode may not change or the hybrid system may not start. If attempting to restart the hybrid system immediately after turning the power switch off the hybrid system may not start in some cases. After turning the power switch off wait a few seconds before restarting the hybrid system. If the smart entry start system has been deactivated in a customized setting P. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures WARNING When starting the hybrid system Always start the hybrid system while sitting in the driver s seat. Do not depress the accelerator pedal while starting the hybrid system under any circumstances. Doing so may cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury. Caution while driving If hybrid system failure occurs while the vehicle is moving do not lock or open the doors until the vehicle reaches a safe and complete stop. Activa tion of the steering lock in this circumstance may lead to an accident result ing in death or serious injury. Stopping the hybrid system in an emergency If you want to stop the hybrid system in an emergency while driving the vehicle press and hold the power switch for more than seconds or press it briefly times or more in succession. P. However do not touch the power switch while driving except in an emer gency. Turning the hybrid system off while driving will not cause loss of steering or braking control however power assist to the steering will be lost. This will make it more difficult to steer smoothly so you should pull over and stop the vehicle as soon as it is safe to do so. If the power switch is operated while the vehicle is running a warning message will be shown on the multi information display and a buzzer sounds. When restarting the hybrid system after an emergency shutdown while driving press the power switch. When restarting the hybrid system after stopping the vehicle change the shift position to P and then press the power switch. CAMRY HV EE. Driving procedures NOTICE To prevent volt battery discharge Do not leave the power switch in ACCESSORY or ON mode for long peri ods of time without the hybrid system on. If ACCESSORY or IGNITION ON is displayed on the multi information display the power switch is not off. Exit the vehicle after turning the power switch off. Do not stop the hybrid system when the shift lever is in a position other than P. If the hybrid system is stopped in another shift lever position the power switch will not be turned off but instead be turned to ACCESSORY mode. If the vehicle is left in ACCESSORY mode volt battery dis charge may occur. When starting the hybrid system Do not depress the accelerator pedal unnecessarily. If the hybrid system becomes difficult to start have your vehicle checked by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reli able repairer immediately. Symptoms indicating a malfunction with the power switch If the power switch seems to be operating somewhat differently than usual such as the switch sticking slightly there may be a malfunction. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures EV drive mode In EV drive mode electric power is supplied by the hybrid bat tery traction battery and only the electric motor traction motor is used to drive the vehicle. This mode allows you to drive in residential areas early in the morning and late at night or in indoor parking lots etc. without concern for noises and gas emissions. Turns EV drive mode on off When EV drive mode is turned on the EV drive mode indicator will come on. Pressing the switch when in EV drive mode will return the vehicle to normal driving using the gasoline engine and electric motor traction motor. Situations in which EV drive mode cannot be turned on It may not be possible to turn EV drive mode on in the following situations. If it cannot be turned on a buzzer will sound and a message will be shown on the multi information display. The temperature of the hybrid system is high. The vehicle has been left in the sun driven on a hill driven at high speeds etc. The temperature of the hybrid system is low. The vehicle has been left in temperatures lower than about C F for a long period of time etc. The gasoline engine is warming up. The hybrid battery traction battery is low. The remaining battery level indicated in the energy monitor display is low. P. Vehicle speed is high. The accelerator pedal is depressed firmly or the vehicle is on a hill etc. The windshield defogger is in use. CAMRY HV EE. Driving procedures Switching to EV drive mode when the gasoline engine is cold If the hybrid system is started while the gasoline engine is cold the gasoline engine will start automatically after a short period of time in order to warm up. In this case you will become unable to switch to EV drive mode. After the hybrid system has started and the READY indicator has illumi nated press the EV drive mode switch before the gasoline engine starts to switch to EV drive mode. Automatic cancelation of EV drive mode When driving in EV drive mode the gasoline engine may automatically restart in the following situations. When EV drive mode is canceled a buzzer will sound and the EV drive mode indicator will flash and go off. The hybrid battery traction battery becomes low. The remaining battery level indicated in the energy monitor display is low. P. Vehicle speed is high. The accelerator pedal is depressed firmly or the vehicle is on a hill etc. When it is possible to inform the driver of automatic cancelation in advance a prior notice screen will appear on the multi information display. Possible driving distance when driving in EV drive mode EV drive mode s possible driving distance ranges from a few hundred meters to approximately km. miles. However depending on vehicle conditions there are situations when EV drive mode cannot be used. The distance that is possible depends on the hybrid battery traction battery level and driving conditions. Fuel economy The hybrid system is designed to achieve the best possible fuel economy during normal driving using the gasoline engine and electric motor traction motor. Driving in EV drive mode more than necessary may lower fuel econ omy. If EV Mode Unavailable is shown on the multi information display The EV drive mode is not available. The reason the EV drive mode is not available the vehicle is idling battery charge is low vehicle speed is higher than the EV drive mode operating speed range or accelerator pedal is depressed too much may be displayed. Use the EV drive mode when it becomes available. If EV Mode Deactivated is shown on the multi information display The EV drive mode has been automatically canceled. The reason the EV drive mode is not available the battery charge is low vehicle speed is higher than the EV drive mode operating speed range or accelerator pedal is depressed too much may be displayed. Drive the vehicle for a while before attempting to turn on the EV drive mode again. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures WARNING Caution while driving When driving in EV drive mode pay special attention to the area around the vehicle. Because there is no engine noise pedestrians people riding bicy cles or other people and vehicles in the area may not be aware of the vehi cle starting off or approaching them so take extra care while driving. CAMRY HV EE. Driving procedures Hybrid transmission Shifting the shift lever While the power switch is in ON mode and the brake pedal depressed shift the shift lever while pushing the shift release button on the shift knob. Shift the shift lever while pushing the shift release button on the shift knob. Shift the shift lever normally. When shifting the shift lever between P and D make sure that the vehicle is completely stopped and the brake pedal is depressed. For the vehicle be able to be shifted from P the brake pedal must be depressed before the shift release button is pushed. If the shift release button is pushed first the shift lock will not be released. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures Shift position purpose Shift position Objective or function P Parking the vehicle starting the hybrid system R Reversing N Neutral D Normal driving S S mode driving P. To improve fuel efficiency and reduce noise shift the shift lever to D for normal driving. By selecting shift ranges using S mode you can control accelerating force and engine braking force. CAMRY HV EE. Driving procedures Selecting the driving mode P. Changing shift ranges in S mode When the shift lever is in the S position the shift lever can be oper ated as follows Upshifting Downshifting The initial shift range in S mode is set automatically to S or S according to vehicle speed. Shift ranges and their functions You can choose from levels of accelerating force and engine braking force. A lower shift range will provide greater accelerating force and engine braking force than a higher shift range and the engine revolutions will also increase. If you accelerate while in ranges to the shift range may auto matically increase in accordance with the vehicle speed. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures S mode When the shift range is S or lower holding the shift lever toward sets the shift range to S. To prevent the engine from over revving upshifting may automatically occur. Downshift restriction warning buzzer S mode To help ensure safety and driving performance downshifting operation may sometimes be restricted. In some circumstances downshifting may not be possible even when the shift lever is operated. A buzzer will sound twice. When driving with dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range activated Even when performing the following actions with the intent of enabling engine braking engine braking will not occur because dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range will not be canceled. While driving in S mode downshifting to or. P. When switching the driving mode to sport mode while driving in the D posi tion. P. Restraining sudden start Drive start Control P. Shift lock system The shift lock system is a system to prevent accidental operation of the shift lever in starting. The shift lever can be shifted from P only when the power switch is in the ON mode the brake pedal is depressed and the shift release button is pushed. CAMRY HV EE. Driving procedures If the shift lever cannot be shifted from P First check whether the brake pedal is being depressed. If the shift lever cannot be shifted even though the brake pedal is depressed and the shift release button is pushed there may be a problem with the shift lock system. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. The following steps may be used as an emergency measure to ensure that the shift lever can be shifted. Releasing the shift lock Set the parking brake. Turn the power switch off. Depress the brake pedal. Pry the cover up with a flathead screw driver or equivalent tool. To prevent damage to the cover cover the tip of the screwdriver with a rag. Press and hold the shift lock override button and then push the button on the shift knob. The shift lever can be shifted while both buttons are pressed. If the S indicator does not come on or the D indicator is displayed even after shifting the shift lever to S This may indicate a malfunction in the automatic transmission system. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. In this situation the transmission will operate in the same manner as when the shift lever is in D. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures WARNING When driving on slippery road surfaces Do not accelerate or shift gears suddenly. Sudden changes in engine braking may cause the vehicle to spin or skid resulting in an accident. To prevent an accident when releasing the shift lock Before pressing the shift lock override button make sure to set the parking brake and depress the brake pedal. If the accelerator pedal is accidentally depressed instead of the brake pedal when the shift lock override button is pressed and the shift lever is shifted out of P the vehicle may suddenly start possibly leading to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. NOTICE Hybrid battery traction battery charge precaution If the shift lever is in N the hybrid battery traction battery will not be charged even when the engine is running. Therefore if the vehicle is left with the shift lever in N for a long period of time the hybrid battery traction battery will discharge and this may result in the vehicle not being able to start. CAMRY HV EE. Driving procedures Turn signal lever Operating instructions Right turn Lane change to the right move the lever partway and release it The right hand signals will flash times. Lane change to the left move the lever partway and release it The left hand signals will flash times. Left turn Turn signals can be operated when The power switch is in ON mode. If the indicator flashes faster than usual Check that a light bulb in the front or rear turn signal lights has not burned out. If the turn signals stop flashing before a lane change has been per formed Operate the lever again. To discontinue flashing of the turn signals during a lane change Operate the lever in the opposite direction. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures Parking brake A mode can be selected from the following modes. Automatic mode The parking brake is set or released automatically according to the shift lever operation. Even when in automatic mode the parking brake can be set and released manually. P. Turns automatic mode on while the vehicle is stopped pull and hold the parking brake switch until a message is shown on the multi information display cid When the shift lever is moved out of P the parking brake will be released and the parking brake indicator light and parking brake light turn off. cid When the shift lever is moved into P the parking brake will be set and the parking brake indi cator light and parking brake light turn on. Parking Operate the shift lever with the brake light brake pedal depressed. Turns automatic mode off while the vehicle is stopped press and hold the parking brake switch until a message is shown on the multi information display Operate the parking brake switch while depressing the brake pedal. CAMRY HV EE. Driving procedures Manual mode The parking brake can be set and released manually. Sets the parking brake The parking brake indicator light and parking brake light will turn on. Pull and hold the parking brake switch if an emergency occurs and it is necessary to operate the park ing brake while driving. Releases the parking brake Operate the parking brake switch while depressing the brake pedal. Make sure that the parking brake indicator light or parking brake light turn off. If the parking brake indicator light or parking brake light flashes Parking operate the switch again. brake light P. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures Parking the vehicle P. Parking brake operation When the power switch is not in ON mode the parking brake cannot be released using the parking brake switch. When the power switch is not in ON mode automatic mode automatic brake setting and releasing is not available. Automatic release function The parking brake is automatically released when slowly depress the acceler ator pedal. The parking brake will be released automatically under the following condi tions The driver s door is closed. The driver s seatbelt is fastened. Shift the shift lever is in a forward or reverse position. The malfunction indicator lamp or brake system warning light is not illumi nated. If the automatic release function does not operate manually release the park ing brake. If Parking Brake Temporarily Unavailable is displayed on the multi information display If the parking brake is operated repeatedly over a short period of time the system may restrict operation to prevent overheating. If this happens refrain from operating the parking brake. Normal operation will return after about minute. If Parking Brake Unavailable is displayed on the multi information dis play Operate the parking brake switch. If the message does not disappear after operating the switch several times the system may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. Parking brake operation sound When the parking brake operates a motor sound whirring sound may be heard. This does not indicate a malfunction. Parking brake indicator light and parking brake light Depending on the power switch mode the parking brake indicator light and parking brake light will turn on and stay on as described below ON mode Comes on until the parking brake is released. Not in ON mode Stays on for approximately seconds. When the power switch is turned off with the parking brake set the parking brake indicator light and parking brake light will stay on for about sec onds. This does not indicate a malfunction. CAMRY HV EE. Driving procedures Parking brake engaged warning buzzer A buzzer will sound if the vehicle is driven with the parking brake engaged. Release Parking Brake is displayed on the multi information display. Warning messages and buzzers Warning messages and buzzers are used to indicate a system malfunction or to inform the driver of the need for caution. If a warning message is shown on the multi information display read the message and follow the instructions. If the brake system warning light comes on P. Usage in winter time P. WARNING When parking the vehicle Do not leave a child in the vehicle alone. The parking brake may be released unintentionally and there is the danger of the vehicle moving that may lead to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. Parking brake switch Do not set any objects near the parking brake switch. Objects may interfere with the switch and may lead the parking brake to unexpectedly operate. NOTICE When parking the vehicle Before you leave the vehicle shift the shift lever to P set the parking brake and make sure that the vehicle does not move. When the system malfunctions Stop the vehicle in a safe place and check the warning messages. When the parking brake cannot be released due to a malfunction Driving the vehicle with the parking brake set will lead to brake components overheating which may affect braking performance and increase brake wear. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately if this occurs. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures Brake Hold The brake hold system keeps the brake applied when the shift lever is in D S or N with the system on and the brake pedal has been depressed to stop the vehicle. The system releases the brake when the accelerator pedal is depressed with the shift lever in D or S to allow smooth start off. Turns the brake hold system on The brake hold standby indicator green comes on. While the sys tem is holding the brake the brake hold operated indicator yellow comes on. Brake hold standby indicator Brake hold operated indicator Brake hold system operating conditions The brake hold system cannot be turned on in the following conditions The driver s door is not closed. The driver is not wearing the seat belt. If any of the conditions above are detected when the brake hold system is enabled the system will turn off and the brake hold standby indicator light will go off. In addition if any of the conditions are detected while the system is holding the brake a warning buzzer will sound and a message will be shown on the multi information display. The parking brake will then be set automati cally. CAMRY HV EE. Driving procedures Brake hold function If the brake pedal is left released for a period of about minutes after the system has started holding the brake the parking brake will be set automat ically. In this case a warning buzzer sounds and a message is shown on the multi information display. To turn the system off while the system is holding the brake firmly depress the brake pedal and press the button again. The brake hold function may not hold the vehicle when the vehicle is on a steep incline. In this situation it may be necessary for the driver to apply the brakes. A warning buzzer will sound and the multi information display will inform the driver of this situation. If a warning message is shown on the multi information display read the message and follow the instructions. When the parking brake is set automatically while the system is holding the brakes Perform any of the following operations to release the parking brake. Depress the accelerator pedal. The parking brake will not be released auto matically if the seat belt is not fastened. Operate the parking brake switch with the brake pedal depressed. Make sure that the parking brake indicator light goes off. P. When an inspection at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota autho rized repairer or any reliable repairer is necessary When the brake hold standby indicator green does not illuminate even when the brake hold switch is pressed with the brake hold system operating condi tions met the system may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle inspected at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. If Brake Hold Malfunction Press Brake to Deactivate Visit Your Dealer or Brake Hold Malfunction Visit Your Dealer is displayed on the multi information display The system may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle inspected by any autho rized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Warning messages and buzzers Warning messages and buzzers are used to indicate a system malfunction or to inform the driver of the need for caution. If a warning message is shown on the multi information display read the message and follow the instructions. If the brake hold operated indicator flashes P. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving procedures WARNING When the vehicle is on a steep incline When using the brake hold system on a steep incline exercise caution. The brake hold function may not hold the vehicle in such a situation. When stopped on a slippery road The system cannot stop the vehicle when the gripping ability of the tires has been exceeded. Do not use the system when stopped on a slippery road. NOTICE When parking the vehicle The brake hold system is not designed for use when parking the vehicle for a long period of time. Turning the power switch off while the system is hold ing the brake may release the brake which would cause the vehicle to move. When operating the power switch depress the brake pedal shift the shift lever to P and set the parking brake. CAMRY HV EE. Operating the lights and wipers Headlight switch The headlights can be operated manually or automatically. Operating instructions Operating the switch turns on the lights as follows The headlights day time running lights P. and all the lights listed below turn on and off automati cally. When the power switch is in ON mode The front position tail rear side marker license plate and instru ment panel lights turn on. The headlights and all lights listed above turn on. Turning on the high beam headlights With the headlights on push the lever away from you to turn on the high beams. Pull the lever toward you to the center position to turn the high beams off. Pull the lever toward you and release it to flash the high beams once. You can flash the high beams with the headlights on or off. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Operating the lights and wipers Daytime running light system To make your vehicle more visible to other drivers during daytime driving the daytime running lights turn on automatically whenever the hybrid system is started and the parking brake is released with the headlight switch off or in the position. Illuminate brighter than the front position lights. Daytime running lights are not designed for use at night. Headlight control sensor The sensor may not function properly if an object is placed on the sensor or anything that blocks the sensor is affixed to the windshield. Doing so interferes with the sensor detecting the level of ambient light and may cause the automatic headlight sys tem to malfunction. Automatic light off system Except for Ukraine When the light switch is in the or position The headlights and front fog lights if equipped turn off automatically if the power switch is turned to ACCESSORY mode or off. When the light switch is in the position The headlights and all lights turn off automatically if the power switch is turned to ACCESSORY mode or off. To turn the lights on again turn the power switch to ON mode or turn the light switch to the position once and then back to the or posi tion. For Ukraine The headlights and all lights turn off if the power switch is turned to ACCES SORY mode or off and the driver s door is opened. To turn the lights on again turn the power switch to ON mode or turn the light switch to the position once and then back to the or posi tion. Light reminder buzzer except when the light switch is in A buzzer sounds when the power switch is turned off or turned to ACCES SORY mode and the driver s door is opened while the lights are turned on. Automatic headlight leveling system The level of the headlights is automatically adjusted according to the number of passengers and the loading condition of the vehicle to ensure that the headlights do not interfere with other road users. CAMRY HV EE. Operating the lights and wipers volt battery saving function Except for Ukraine In order to prevent the volt battery of the vehicle from discharging if the light switch is in the or position when the power switch is turned to ACCESSORY mode or off the volt battery saving function will operate and automatically turn off all the lights after approximately minutes. When the power switch is turned to ON mode the volt battery saving function will be disabled. When any of the following are performed the volt battery saving function is canceled once and then reactivated. All the lights will turn off automatically minutes after the volt battery saving function has been reactivated When the headlight switch is operated When a door or the trunk is opened or closed For Ukraine In order to prevent the volt battery of the vehicle from discharging if the headlights and or tail lights are on when the power switch is turned to ACCESSORY mode or off the volt battery saving function will operate and automatically turn off all the lights after approximately minutes. When the power switch is turned to ON mode the volt battery saving function will be disabled. When any of the following are performed the volt battery saving function is canceled once and then reactivated. All the lights will turn off automatically minutes after the volt battery saving function has been reactivated When the headlight switch is operated When a door or the trunk is opened or closed Customization Some functions can be customized. P. NOTICE To prevent volt battery discharge Do not leave the lights on longer than necessary when the hybrid system is off. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Operating the lights and wipers Automatic High Beam The Automatic High Beam uses a camera sensor located behind the upper portion of the windshield to assess the brightness of the lights of vehicles ahead streetlights etc. and automatically turns the high beams on or off as necessary. WARNING Limitations of the Automatic High Beam Do not overly rely on the Automatic High Beam. Always drive safely taking care to observe your surroundings and turning the high beams on or off manually if necessary. To prevent incorrect operation of the Automatic High Beam system Do not overload the vehicle. Activating the Automatic High Beam Push the lever away from you with the headlight switch in the or position. Press the Automatic High Beam switch. The Automatic High Beam indica tor will come on when the system is operating. CAMRY HV EE. Operating the lights and wipers Turning the high beams on off manually Switching to the low beams Pull the lever to its original posi tion. The Automatic High Beam indi cator will turn off. Push the lever away from you to activate the Automatic High Beam system again. Switching to the high beams Press the Automatic High Beam switch. The Automatic High Beam indi cator will turn off and the high beam indicator will turn on. Press the switch to activate the Automatic High Beam system again. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Operating the lights and wipers Conditions to turn the high beams on off automatically When all of the following conditions are met the high beams will be turned on automatically after approximately second cid The vehicle speed is approximately km h mph or more. cid The area ahead of the vehicle is dark. cid There are no vehicles ahead with headlights or tail lights turned on. cid There are few streetlights on the road ahead. If any of the following conditions is met the high beams will turn off automat ically cid The vehicle speed is below approximately km h mph. cid The area ahead of the vehicle is not dark. cid Vehicles ahead have their headlights or tail lights turned on. cid There are many streetlights on the road ahead. Camera sensor detection information The high beams may not be automatically turned off in the following situa tions cid When a vehicle suddenly appears from around a curve cid When the vehicle is cut in front of by another vehicle cid When vehicles ahead cannot be detected due to repeated curves road dividers or roadside trees cid When vehicles ahead appear in a faraway lane on a wide road cid When the lights of vehicles ahead are not on The high beams may be turned off if a vehicle ahead that is using fog lights without its headlights turned on is detected. House lights street lights traffic signals and illuminated billboards or signs and other reflective objects may cause the high beams to change to the low beams or the low beams to remain on. The following factors may affect the amount of time taken for the high beams to turn on or off cid The brightness of the headlights fog lights and tail lights of vehicles ahead cid The movement and direction of vehicles ahead cid When a vehicle ahead only has operational lights on one side cid When a vehicle ahead is a two wheeled vehicle cid The condition of the road gradient curve condition of the road surface etc. cid The number of passengers and amount of luggage in the vehicle The high beams may turn on or off unexpectedly. Bicycles or similar vehicles may not be detected. CAMRY HV EE. Operating the lights and wipers In the following situations the system may not be able to correctly detect the surrounding brightness level. This may cause the low beams to remain on or the high beams to flash or dazzle pedestrians or vehicles ahead. In such a case it is necessary to manually switch between the high and low beams. cid When driving in inclement weather heavy rain snow fog sandstorms etc. cid When the windshield is obscured by fog mist ice dirt etc. cid When the windshield is cracked or damaged cid When the camera sensor is deformed or dirty cid When the temperature of the camera sensor is extremely high cid When the surrounding brightness level is equal to that of headlights tail lights or fog lights cid When headlights or tail lights of vehicles ahead are turned off dirty changing color or not aimed properly cid When the vehicle is hit by water snow dust etc. from a preceding vehi cle cid When driving through an area of intermittently changing brightness and darkness cid When frequently and repeatedly driving ascending descending roads or roads with rough bumpy or uneven surfaces such as stone paved roads gravel roads etc. cid When frequently and repeatedly taking curves or driving on a winding road cid When there is a highly reflective object ahead of the vehicle such as a sign or mirror cid When the back of a preceding vehicle is highly reflective such as a con tainer on a truck cid When the vehicle s headlights are damaged or dirty or are not aimed properly cid When the vehicle is listing or titling due to a flat tire a trailer being towed etc. cid When the headlights are changed between the high beams and low beams repeatedly in an abnormal manner cid When the driver believes that the high beams may be flashing or dazzling pedestrians or other drivers cid When the vehicle is used in an area in which vehicles travel on the oppo site side of the road of the country for which the vehicle was designed for example using a vehicle designed for right hand traffic in a left hand traf fic area or vice versa CAMRY HV EE Driving. Operating the lights and wipers Fog light switch The fog lights secure excellent visibility in difficult driving con ditions such as in rain and fog. Rear fog light switch Turns the rear fog light off Turns the rear fog light on Releasing the switch ring returns it to. Operating the switch ring again turns the rear fog light off. Front and rear fog light switch Turns the front and rear fog lights off Turns the front fog lights on Turns both front and rear fog lights on Releasing the switch ring returns it to. Operating the switch ring again turns only the rear fog light off. CAMRY HV EE. Operating the lights and wipers Fog lights can be used when Vehicles with a rear fog light switch The headlights are turned on. Vehicles with a front and rear fog light switch Front fog lights The headlights or front position lights are turned on. Rear fog light The front fog lights are turned on. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Operating the lights and wipers Windshield wipers and washer Operating the wiper lever When AUTO is selected the wipers will operate automatically when the sensor detects falling rain. The system automatically adjusts wiper timing in accordance with rain volume and vehicle speed. Rain sensing windshield wiper operation Low speed windshield wiper operation High speed windshield wiper operation Temporary operation CAMRY HV EE. Operating the lights and wipers When AUTO is selected the sensor sensitivity can be adjusted as follows by turning the switch ring. Increases the rain sensing windshield wiper sensitivity Decreases the rain sensing windshield wiper sensitivity Washer wiper dual oper ation Pulling the lever operates the wip ers and washer. The wipers will automatically oper ate a couple of times after the washer squirts. After operating several times the wipers operate once more time after a short delay to prevent drip ping. However the dripping pre vention does not operate while the vehicle is moving. When the power switch is in the ON mode and the headlights are on if the lever is pulled the headlight cleaners will operate once. After this the headlight cleaners will operate every th time the lever is pulled. The windshield wiper and washer can be operated when The power switch is in ON mode. Effects of vehicle speed on wiper operation Vehicle speed affects the intermittent wiper interval. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Operating the lights and wipers Raindrop sensor The raindrop sensor judges the amount of raindrops. An optical sensor is adopted. It may not operate properly when sunlight from the rising or setting of the sun intermittently strikes the windshield or if bugs etc. are present on the windshield. If the wiper switch is turned to the AUTO position while the power switch is in ON mode the wiper will operate once to show that AUTO mode is acti vated. If the temperature of the raindrop sensor is C F or higher or C F or lower automatic operation may not occur. In this case operate the wipers in any mode other than AUTO. If no windshield washer fluid sprays Check that the washer nozzles are not blocked if there is washer fluid in the windshield washer fluid reservoir. Front door opening linked windshield wiper stop function When AUTO is selected and the windshield wipers are operating if a front door is opened the operation of the windshield wipers will be stopped to pre vent anyone near the vehicle from being sprayed by water from the wipers provided the vehicle is stopped. When the front door is closed wiper opera tion will resume. When stopping the engine in an emergency while driving If the windshield wipers are operating when the hybrid system is stopped the windshield wipers will operate in high speed operation. After the vehicle is stopped operation will return to normal when the power switch is turned to ON mode or operation will stop when the driver s door is opened. CAMRY HV EE. Operating the lights and wipers WARNING Caution regarding the use of windshield wipers in AUTO mode The windshield wipers may operate unexpectedly if the sensor is touched or the windshield is subject to vibration in AUTO mode. Take care that your fingers etc. do not become caught in the windshield wipers. Caution regarding the use of washer fluid When it is cold do not use the washer fluid until the windshield becomes warm. The fluid may freeze on the windshield and cause low visibility. This may lead to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. NOTICE When the windshield is dry Do not use the wipers as they may damage the windshield. When the washer fluid tank is empty Damage to the washer fluid pump may be caused if the lever is pulled toward you and held continually. When a nozzle becomes blocked In this case contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Do not try to clear it with a pin or other object. The nozzle will be damaged. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Operating the lights and wipers Changing the windshield wiper rest position Lifting the wind shield wipers When the windshield wipers are not being used they retract to below the hood. To enable the windshield wipers to be lifted when parking in cold conditions or when replacing a windshield wiper insert change the rest position of the windshield wipers to the service position using the wiper lever. Raising the wipers to the service position Within approximately sec onds of turning the power switch off move the wiper lever to the or position and hold it for approximately sec onds or more. The wipers will move to the ser vice position. Lifting the windshield wipers While holding the hook portion of the wiper arm lift the wind shield wiper from the wind shield. Hook portion CAMRY HV EE. Operating the lights and wipers Lowering the windshield wipers to the retracted position With the windshield wipers placed on the windshield turn the power switch to ON mode and then move the wiper lever to an operating position. When the wiper switch is turned off the windshield wipers will stop at the retracted posi tion. NOTICE When lifting the windshield wipers Do not lift the windshield wipers when they are in the retracted position below the hood. Otherwise they may contact the hood possibly resulting in damage to a windshield wiper and or the hood. Do not operate the wiper lever when the windshield wipers are lifted. Oth erwise the windshield wipers may contact the hood possibly resulting in damage to the windshield wipers and or hood. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Refueling Opening the fuel tank cap Perform the following steps to open the fuel tank cap Before refueling the vehicle Close all the doors and windows and turn the power switch off. Confirm the type of fuel. Fuel types P. Fuel tank opening for unleaded gasoline To help prevent incorrect fueling your Toyota has a fuel tank opening that only accommodates the special nozzle on unleaded fuel pumps. CAMRY HV EE. Refueling WARNING When refueling the vehicle Observe the following precautions while refueling the vehicle. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. After exiting the vehicle and before opening the fuel door touch an unpainted metal surface to discharge any static electricity. It is important to discharge static electricity before refueling because sparks resulting from static electricity can cause fuel vapors to ignite while refueling. Always hold the grips on the fuel tank cap and turn it slowly to remove it. A whooshing sound may be heard when the fuel tank cap is loosened. Wait until the sound cannot be heard before fully removing the cap. In hot weather pressurized fuel may spray out the filler neck and cause injury. Do not allow anyone that has not discharged static electricity from their body to come close to an open fuel tank. Do not inhale vaporized fuel. Fuel contains substances that are harmful if inhaled. Do not smoke while refueling the vehicle. Doing so may cause the fuel to ignite and cause a fire. Do not return to the vehicle or touch any person or object that is statically charged. This may cause static electricity to build up resulting in a possible ignition hazard. When refueling Observe the following precautions to prevent fuel overflowing from the fuel tank Securely insert the fuel nozzle into the fuel filler neck. Stop filling the tank after the fuel nozzle automatically clicks off. Do not top off the fuel tank. NOTICE Refueling Do not spill fuel during refueling. Doing so may damage the vehicle such as causing the emission control system to operate abnormally or damaging fuel system components or the vehicle s painted surface. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Refueling Opening the fuel tank cap Press and hold the opener switch to open the fuel filler door. Left hand drive vehicles Right hand drive vehicles Turn the fuel tank cap slowly to remove it and hang it on the back of the fuel filler door. CAMRY HV EE. Refueling Closing the fuel tank cap After refueling turn the fuel tank cap until you hear a click. Once the cap is released it will turn slightly in the opposite direction. If the fuel filler door cannot be opened Remove the cover inside the trunk and pull the lever. WARNING When replacing the fuel tank cap Do not use anything but a genuine Toyota fuel tank cap designed for your vehicle. Doing so may cause a fire or other incident which may result in death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Toyota Safety Sense The Toyota Safety Sense consists of the following drive assist systems and contributes to a safe and comfortable driving expe rience PCS Pre Collision System P. LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control P. Automatic High Beam P. RSA Road Sign Assist P. Dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range P. WARNING Toyota Safety Sense The Toyota Safety Sense is designed to operate under the assumption that the driver will drive safely and is designed to help reduce the impact to the occupants and the vehicle in the case of a collision or assist the driver in normal driving conditions. As there is a limit to the degree of recognition accuracy and control perfor mance that this system can provide do not overly rely on this system. The driver is always responsible for paying attention to the vehicle s surroundings and driving safely. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Vehicle data recording The pre collision system is equipped with a sophisticated computer that will record certain data such as cid Accelerator status cid Brake status cid Vehicle speed cid Operation status of the pre collision system functions cid Information such as the distance and relative speed between your vehicle and the vehicle ahead or other objects The pre collision system does not record conversations sounds or pictures. Data usage Toyota may use the data recorded in this computer to diagnose malfunctions conduct research and development and improve quality. Toyota will not disclose the recorded data to a third party except cid With the consent of the vehicle owner or with the consent of the lessee if the vehicle is leased cid In response to an official request by the police a court of law or a government agency cid For use by Toyota in a lawsuit cid For research purposes where the data is not tied to a specific vehicle or vehicle owner Sensors Two types of sensors located behind the front grille and windshield detect information necessary to operate the drive assist systems. Radar sensor Camera sensor CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems WARNING To avoid malfunction of the radar sensor Observe the following precautions. Otherwise the radar sensor may not operate properly possibly leading to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. Keep the radar sensor and front grille emblem clean at all times. Radar sensor Front grille emblem If the front of the radar sensor or the front or back of the front grille emblem is dirty or covered with water droplets snow etc. clean it. Clean the radar sensor and front grille emblem with a soft cloth so you do not mark or damage them. Do not attach accessories stickers including transparent stickers or other items to the radar sensor front grille emblem or surrounding area. Do not subject the radar sensor or surrounding area to a strong impact. If the radar sensor front grille or front bumper has been subjected to a strong impact have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Do not disassemble the radar sensor. Do not modify or paint the radar sensor front grille emblem or surrounding area. If the radar sensor front grille or front bumper needs to be removed and installed or replaced contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems WARNING To avoid malfunction of the camera sensor Observe the following precautions. Otherwise the camera sensor may not operate properly possibly leading to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. Keep the windshield clean at all times. cid If the windshield is dirty or covered with an oily film water droplets snow etc. clear the windshield. cid If a glass coating agent is applied to the windshield it will still be neces sary to use the windshield wipers to remove water droplets etc. from the area of the windshield in front of the camera sensor. cid If the inner side of the windshield where the camera sensor is installed is dirty contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Do not attach objects such as stickers transparent stickers and so forth to the outer side of the windshield in front of the camera sensor shaded area in the illustration. A From the top of the windshield to approximately cm. in. below the bottom of the camera sensor B Approximately cm. in. Approximately cm. in. to the right and left from the center of the camera sensor If the part of the windshield in front of the camera sensor is fogged up or covered with condensation or ice use the windshield defogger to remove the fog condensation or ice. P. If water droplets cannot be properly removed from the area of the wind shield in front of the camera sensor by the windshield wipers replace the wiper insert or wiper blade. If the wiper inserts or wiper blades need to be replaced contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Do not attach window tinting to the windshield. Replace the windshield if it is damaged or cracked. If the windshield needs to be replaced contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Do not get the camera sensor wet. Do not allow bright lights to shine into the camera sensor. Do not dirty or damage the camera sensor. When cleaning the inside of the windshield do not allow glass cleaner to contact the lens. Also do not touch the lens. If the lens is dirty or damaged contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems WARNING Do not subject the camera sensor to a strong impact. Do not change the installation position or direction of the camera sensor or remove it. Do not disassemble the camera sensor. Do not modify any components of the vehicle around the camera sensor inside rear view mirror etc. or ceiling. Do not attach any accessories that may obstruct the camera sensor to the hood front grille or front bumper. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer for details. If a surfboard or other long object is to be mounted on the roof make sure that it will not obstruct the camera sensor. Do not modify the headlights or other lights. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Certification CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems PCS Pre Collision System The pre collision system uses a radar sensor and camera sen sor to detect vehicles and pedestrians in front of your vehicle. When the system determines that the possibility of a frontal col lision with a vehicle or pedestrian is high a warning operates to urge the driver to take evasive action and the potential brake pressure is increased to help the driver avoid the collision. If the system determines that the possibility of a frontal collision with a vehicle or pedestrian is extremely high the brakes are auto matically applied to help avoid the collision or help reduce the impact of the collision. The pre collision system can be disabled enabled and the warning timing can be changed. P. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Pre collision warning When the system determines that the possibility of a frontal collision is high a buzzer will sound and a warning message will be displayed on the multi information display to urge the driver to take evasive action. Pre collision brake assist When the system determines that the possibility of a frontal colli sion is high the system applies greater braking force in relation to how strongly the brake pedal is depressed. Pre collision braking When the system determines that the possibility of a frontal colli sion is high the system warns the driver. If the system determines that the possibility of a frontal collision is extremely high the brakes are automatically applied to help avoid the collision or reduce the collision speed. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems WARNING Limitations of the pre collision system The driver is solely responsible for safe driving. Always drive safely taking care to observe your surroundings. Do not use the pre collision system instead of normal braking operations under any circumstances. This system will not prevent collisions or lessen collision damage or injury in every situation. Do not overly rely on this sys tem. Failure to do so may lead to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. Although this system is designed to help avoid a collision or help reduce the impact of the collision its effectiveness may change according to vari ous conditions therefore the system may not always be able to achieve the same level of performance. Read the following conditions carefully. Do not overly rely on this system and always drive carefully. cid Conditions under which the system may operate even if there is no pos sibility of a collision P. cid Conditions under which the system may not operate properly P. Do not attempt to test the operation of the pre collision system yourself. Depending on the objects used for testing dummies cardboard objects imitating detectable objects etc. the system may not operate properly possibly leading to an accident. Pre collision braking When the pre collision braking function is operating a large amount of braking force will be applied. If the vehicle is stopped by the operation of the pre collision braking func tion the pre collision braking function operation will be canceled after approximately seconds. Depress the brake pedal as necessary. The pre collision braking function may not operate if certain operations are performed by the driver. If the accelerator pedal is being depressed strongly or the steering wheel is being turned the system may determine that the driver is taking evasive action and possibly prevent the pre colli sion braking function from operating. In some situations while the pre collision braking function is operating operation of the function may be canceled if the accelerator pedal is depressed strongly or the steering wheel is turned and the system deter mines that the driver is taking evasive action. If the brake pedal is being depressed the system may determine that the driver is taking evasive action and possibly delay the operation timing of the pre collision braking function. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems WARNING When to disable the pre collision system In the following situations disable the system as it may not operate prop erly possibly leading to an accident resulting in death or serious injury When the vehicle is being towed When your vehicle is towing another vehicle When transporting the vehicle via truck boat train or similar means of transportation When the vehicle is raised on a lift with the hybrid system on and the tires are allowed to rotate freely When inspecting the vehicle using a drum tester such as a chassis dyna mometer or speedometer tester or when using an on vehicle wheel bal ancer When a strong impact is applied to the front bumper or front grille due to an accident or other reasons If the vehicle cannot be driven in a stable manner such as when the vehi cle has been in an accident or is malfunctioning When the vehicle is driven in a sporty manner or off road When the tires are not properly inflated When the tires are very worn When tires of a size other than specified are installed When tire chains are installed When a compact spare tire or an emergency tire puncture repair kit is used If equipment snow plow etc. that may obstruct the radar sensor or cam era sensor is temporarily installed to the vehicle CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Changing settings of the pre collision system Enabling disabling the pre collision system The pre collision system can be enabled disabled on P. of the multi information display. The system is automatically enabled each time the power switch is turned to ON mode. If the system is disabled the PCS warning light will turn on and a message will be dis played on the multi information display. Changing the pre collision warning timing The pre collision warning timing can be changed on P. of the multi information display. The operation timing setting is retained when the power switch is turned off. Far The warning will begin to oper ate earlier than with the default timing. Middle This is the default setting. Near The warning will begin to oper ate later than with the default timing. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Operational conditions The pre collision system is enabled and the system determines that the pos sibility of a frontal collision with a vehicle or pedestrian is high. Each function is operational at the following speeds Pre collision warning cid Vehicle speed is between approximately and km h and mph. For detecting a pedestrian vehicle speed is between approxi mately and km h and mph. cid The relative speed between your vehicle and the vehicle or pedestrian ahead is approximately km h mph or more. Pre collision brake assist cid Vehicle speed is between approximately and km h and mph. For detecting a pedestrian vehicle speed is between approxi mately and km h and mph. cid The relative speed between your vehicle and the vehicle or pedestrian ahead is approximately km h mph or more. Pre collision braking cid Vehicle speed is between approximately and km h and mph. For detecting a pedestrian vehicle speed is between approxi mately and km h and mph. cid The relative speed between your vehicle and the vehicle or pedestrian ahead is approximately km h mph or more. The system may not operate in the following situations If a volt battery terminal has been disconnected and reconnected and then the vehicle has not been driven for a certain amount of time If the shift lever is in R If VSC is disabled only the pre collision warning function will be opera tional Pedestrian detection function The pre collision system detects pedestri ans based on the size profile and motion of a detected object. However a pedes trian may not be detected depending on the surrounding brightness and the motion posture and angle of the detected object preventing the system from operating properly. P. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Cancelation of the pre collision braking If either of the following occur while the pre collision braking function is oper ating it will be canceled The accelerator pedal is depressed strongly. The steering wheel is turned sharply or abruptly. Conditions under which the system may operate even if there is no pos sibility of a collision In some situations such as the following the system may determine that there is a possibility of a frontal collision and operate. cid When passing a vehicle or pedestrian cid When changing lanes while overtaking a preceding vehicle cid When overtaking a preceding vehicle that is changing lanes cid When overtaking a preceding vehicle that is making a left right turn cid When passing a vehicle in an oncom ing lane that is stopped to make a right left turn cid When driving on a road where relative location to vehicle ahead in an adja cent lane may change such as on a winding road cid When rapidly closing on a vehicle ahead cid If the front of the vehicle is raised or lowered such as when the road sur face is uneven or undulating cid When approaching objects on the roadside such as guardrails utility poles trees or walls CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems cid When there is a vehicle pedestrian or object by the roadside at the entrance of a curve cid When driving on a narrow path surrounded by a structure such as in a tunnel or on an iron bridge cid When there is a metal object manhole cover steel plate etc. steps or a protrusion on the road surface or roadside cid When a crossing pedestrian approaches very close to the vehicle cid When passing through a place with a low structure above the road low ceil ing traffic sign etc. cid When passing under an object bill board etc. at the top of an uphill road cid When rapidly closing on an electric toll gate barrier parking area barrier or other barrier that opens and closes cid When using an automatic car wash CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems cid When driving through or under objects that may contact the vehicle such as thick grass tree branches or a banner cid When the vehicle is hit by water snow dust etc. from a vehicle ahead cid When driving through steam or smoke cid When there are patterns or paint on the road or a wall that may be mis taken for a vehicle or pedestrian cid When driving near an object that reflects radio waves such as a large truck or guardrail cid When driving near a TV tower broadcasting station electric power plant or other location where strong radio waves or electrical noise may be present Situations in which the system may not operate properly In some situations such as the following a vehicle may not be detected by the radar sensor and camera sensor preventing the system from operating properly cid If an oncoming vehicle is approaching your vehicle cid If a vehicle ahead is a motorcycle or bicycle cid When approaching the side or front of a vehicle cid If a preceding vehicle has a small rear end such as an unloaded truck cid If a preceding vehicle has a low rear end such as a low bed trailer cid If a vehicle ahead is carrying a load which protrudes past its rear bumper cid If a vehicle ahead has extremely high ground clearance CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems cid If a vehicle ahead is irregularly shaped such as a tractor or side car cid If the sun or other light is shining directly on a vehicle ahead cid If a vehicle cuts in front of your vehicle or emerges from beside a vehicle cid If a vehicle ahead makes an abrupt maneuver such as sudden swerving acceleration or deceleration cid When suddenly cutting behind a preceding vehicle cid When a vehicle ahead is not directly in front of your vehicle cid When driving in inclement weather such as heavy rain fog snow or a sandstorm cid When the vehicle is hit by water snow dust etc. from a vehicle ahead cid When driving through steam or smoke cid When driving in a place where the surrounding brightness changes sud denly such as at the entrance or exit of a tunnel cid When a very bright light such as the sun or the headlights of oncoming traffic shines directly into the camera sensor cid When the surrounding area is dim such as at dawn or dusk or while at night or in a tunnel cid After the hybrid system has started the vehicle has not been driven for a certain amount of time cid While making a left right turn and for a few seconds after making a left right turn cid While driving on a curve and for a few seconds after driving on a curve cid If your vehicle is skidding cid If the front of the vehicle is raised or lowered cid If the wheels are misaligned cid If a wiper blade is blocking the camera sensor cid The vehicle is wobbling. cid The vehicle is being driven at extremely high speeds. cid When driving on a hill cid If the radar sensor or camera sensor is misaligned CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems In some situations such as the following sufficient braking force may not be obtained preventing the system from performing properly cid If the braking functions cannot operate to their full extent such as when the brake parts are extremely cold extremely hot or wet cid If the vehicle is not properly maintained brakes or tires are excessively worn improper tire inflation pressure etc. cid When the vehicle is being driven on a gravel road or other slippery sur face Some pedestrians such as the following may not be detected by the radar sensor and camera sensor preventing the system from operating properly cid Pedestrians shorter than approximately m. ft. or taller than approx imately m. ft. cid Pedestrians wearing oversized clothing a rain coat long skirt etc. mak ing their silhouette obscure cid Pedestrians who are carrying large baggage holding an umbrella etc. hiding part of their body cid Pedestrians who are bending forward or squatting cid Pedestrians who are pushing a stroller wheelchair bicycle or other vehi cle cid Groups of pedestrians which are close together cid Pedestrians who are wearing white and look extremely bright cid Pedestrians in the dark such as at night or while in a tunnel cid Pedestrians whose clothing appears to be nearly the same color or brightness as their surroundings cid Pedestrians near walls fences guardrails or large objects cid Pedestrians who are on a metal object manhole cover steel plate etc. on the road cid Pedestrians who are walking fast cid Pedestrians who are changing speed abruptly cid Pedestrians running out from behind a vehicle or a large object cid Pedestrians who are extremely close to the side of the vehicle outside rear view mirror etc. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems If the PCS warning light flashes or illuminates and a warning message is displayed on the multi information display The pre collision system may be temporarily unavailable or there may be a malfunction in the system. In the following situations the warning light will turn off the message will disappear and the system will become operational when normal operating conditions return cid When the radar sensor or camera sensor or the area around either sen sor is hot such as in the sun cid When the radar sensor or camera sensor or the area around either sen sor is cold such as in an extremely cold environment cid When a front sensor is dirty or covered with snow etc. cid When the part of the windshield in front of the camera sensor is fogged up or covered with condensation or ice Defogging the windshield P. cid If the camera sensor is obstructed such as when the hood is open or a sticker is attached to the windshield near the camera sensor If the PCS warning light continues to flash or remains illuminated or the warning message does not disappear even though the vehicle has returned to normal the system may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. If VSC is disabled If VSC is disabled P. the pre collision brake assist and pre collision braking functions are also disabled. The PCS warning light will turn on and VSC Turned OFF Pre Collision Brake System Unavailable will be displayed on the multi information dis play. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control Summary of functions When driving on highways and freeways with white yellow lines this function alerts the driver when the vehicle might depart from its lane and provides assistance by operating the steering wheel to keep the vehicle in its lane. The LDA system recognizes visi ble white yellow lines with the camera sensor on the upper por tion of the front windshield. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Functions included in LDA system Lane departure alert function When the system determines that the vehicle might depart from its lane a warning is dis played on the multi information display and the warning buzzer sounds to alert the driver. When the warning buzzer sounds check the surrounding road situation and carefully operate the steering wheel to move the vehicle back to the center of the lane. Steering control function When the system determines that the vehicle might depart from its lane the system pro vides assistance as necessary by operating the steering wheel in small amounts for a short period of time to keep the vehi cle in its lane. If the system detects that the steering wheel has not been operated for a fixed amount of time or the steering wheel is not being firmly gripped a warning is displayed on the multi infor mation display and the function is temporarily canceled. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Vehicle sway warning function When the vehicle is swaying or appears as if it may depart from its lane multiple times the warning buzzer sounds and a message is displayed on the multi information display to alert the driver. WARNING Before using LDA system Do not rely solely upon the LDA system. The LDA system does not auto matically drive the vehicle or reduce the amount of attention that must be paid to the area in front of the vehicle. The driver must always assume full responsibility for driving safely by paying careful attention to the surround ing conditions and operating the steering wheel to correct the path of the vehicle. Also the driver must take adequate breaks when fatigued such as from driving for a long period of time. Failure to perform appropriate driving operations and pay careful attention may lead to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. To avoid operating LDA system by mistake When not using the LDA system use the LDA switch to turn the system off. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems WARNING Situations unsuitable for LDA system Do not use the LDA system in the following situations. The system may not operate properly and lead to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. A spare tire tire chains etc. are equipped. When the tires have been excessively worn or when the tire inflation pres sure is low. Tires which differ by structure manufacturer brand or tread pattern are used. Objects or patterns that could be mistaken for white yellow lines are present on the side of the road guardrails curbs reflective poles etc Vehicle is driven on a snow covered road. White yellow lines are difficult to see due to rain snow fog dust etc. Asphalt repair marks white yellow line marks etc. are present due to road repair. Vehicle is driven in a temporary lane or restricted lane due to construction work. Vehicle is driven on a road surface which is slippery due to rainy weather fallen snow freezing etc. Vehicle is driven in traffic lanes other than on highways and freeways. Vehicle is driven in a construction zone. During emergency towing. Preventing LDA system malfunctions and operations performed by mistake Do not modify the headlights or place stickers etc. on the surface of the lights. Do not modify the suspension etc. If the suspension etc. needs to be replaced contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Do not install or place anything on the hood or grille. Also do not install a grille guard bull bars kangaroo bar etc If your windshield needs repairs contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Turning LDA system on Press the LDA switch to turn the LDA system on. The LDA indicator illuminates and a message is displayed on the multi information display. Press the LDA switch again to turn the LDA system off. When the LDA system is turned on or off operation of the LDA system continues in the same condition the next time the hybrid system is started. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Indications on the multi information display LDA indicator The illumination condition of the indicator informs the driver of the system operation status. Illuminated in white LDA system is operating. Illuminated in green Steering wheel assistance of the steering control function is operat ing. Flashing in yellow Lane departure alert function is operating. Operation display of steering wheel operation support Indicates that steering wheel assistance of the steering control function is operating. Lane departure alert function display Displayed when the multi information display is switched to the driving assist system information screen. Inside of displayed white lines Inside of displayed white lines is white is black Indicates that the system is recog Indicates that the system is not nizing white yellow lines. When able to recognize white yellow the vehicle departs from its lane lines or is temporarily canceled. the white line displayed on the side the vehicle departs from flashes yellow. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Operation conditions of each function Lane departure alert function This function operates when all of the following conditions are met. cid LDA is turned on. cid Vehicle speed is approximately km h mph or more. cid System recognizes white yellow lines. cid Width of traffic lane is approximately m. ft. or more. cid Turn signal lever is not operated. cid Vehicle is driven on a straight road or around a gentle curve with a radius of more than approximately m ft cid No system malfunctions are detected. P. Steering control function This function operates when all of the following conditions are met in addi tion to the operation conditions for the lane departure alert function. cid Setting for Steering Assist in of the multi information display is set to On. P. cid Vehicle is not accelerated or decelerated by a certain amount or more. cid Steering wheel is not operated with a steering force level suitable for changing lanes. cid ABS VSC TRC and PCS are not operating. cid TRC or VSC is not turned off. cid Hands off steering wheel warning is not displayed. P. Vehicle sway warning function This function operates when all of the following conditions are met. cid Setting for Sway Warning in of the multi information display is set to On. P. cid Vehicle speed is approximately km h mph or more. cid Width of traffic lane is approximately m. ft. or more. cid No system malfunctions are detected. P. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Temporary cancellation of functions When the operation conditions are no longer met a function may be tempo rarily canceled. However when the operation conditions are met again oper ation of the function is automatically restored. P. Steering control function Depending on the vehicle speed lane departure situation road conditions etc. the driver may not feel the function is operating or the function may not operate at all. Lane departure alert function The warning buzzer may be difficult to hear due to external noise audio play back etc. Hands off steering wheel warning When the system determines that the driver has removed their hands from the steering wheel while the steering control function is operating a warning message urging the driver to hold the steering wheel and the symbol shown in the illus tration are displayed on the multi informa tion display. If the driver continues to keep their hands off of the steering wheel a warning message and the symbol shown in the illustration are displayed on the multi information display and the function is temporarily canceled. This warning also operates in the same way when the driver continuously operates the steering wheel only a small amount. Always keep your hands on the steering wheel when using this system regardless of warnings. Depending on the vehicle and road conditions the warning may not operate. Vehicle sway warning function When the system determines that the vehicle is swaying while the vehicle sway warning function is operating a buzzer sounds and a warning message urging the driver to rest and the symbol shown in the illustration are simultaneously dis played on the multi information display. Depending on the vehicle and road condi tions the warning may not operate. White yellow lines are only on one side of road The LDA system will not operate for the side on which white yellow lines could not be recognized. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Conditions in which functions may not operate properly In the following situations the camera sensor may not detect white yellow lines and various functions may not operate normally. There are shadows on the road that run parallel with or cover the white yellow lines. The vehicle is driven in an area without white yellow lines such as in front of a tollgate or checkpoint or at an intersection etc. The white yellow lines are cracked Raised pavement marker or stones are present. The white yellow lines cannot be seen or are difficult to see due to sand etc. The vehicle is driven on a road surface that is wet due to rain puddles etc. The traffic lines are yellow which may be more difficult to recognize than lines that are white. The white yellow lines cross over a curb etc. The vehicle is driven on a bright surface such as concrete. The vehicle is driven on a surface that is bright due to reflected light etc. The vehicle is driven in an area where the brightness changes suddenly such as at the entrances and exits of tunnels etc. Light from the headlights of an oncoming vehicle the sun etc. enters the camera. The vehicle is driven where the road diverges merges etc. The vehicle is driven on a slope. The vehicle is driven on a road which tilts left or right or a winding road. The vehicle is driven on an unpaved or rough road. The vehicle is driven around a sharp curve. The traffic lane is excessively narrow or wide. The vehicle is extremely tilted due to carrying heavy luggage or having improper tire pressure. The distance to the preceding vehicle is extremely short. The vehicle is moving up and down a large amount due to road conditions during driving poor roads or road seams. The headlight lenses are dirty and emit a faint amount of light at night or the beam axis has deviated. The vehicle is struck by a crosswind. The vehicle has just changed lanes or crossed an intersection. Snow tires etc. are equipped. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems If the LDA indicator is illuminated in yellow and a warning message is displayed on the multi information display P. Customization Some functions can be customized. P. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems RSA Road Sign Assist Summary of function RSA recognizes specific road signs using the camera sensor and provides information to the driver via the multi information display. Camera sensor If the system judges that the vehicle is being driven over the speed limit performing prohibited actions etc. in relation to the recognized road signs it alerts the driver using a warning display and warning buzzer. This setting needs to be customized. WARNING Before using the RSA Do not rely solely upon the RSA system. RSA is a system which supports the driver by providing information but it is not a replacement for a driver s own vision and awareness. Drive safely by always paying careful attention to the traffic rules. Inappropriate or negligent driving could lead to an unexpected accident. If equipped CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Indication on the multi information display After the camera sensor recognizes a sign it is displayed on the multi information display when the vehicle passes the sign. The illustration used is intended as an example and may differ from the image that is actually displayed on the multi information display. A maximum of signs can be displayed. P. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Types of recognized road signs The following types of road signs including electronic signs and blink ing signs are recognized. A non official not meeting the Vienna Convention or a recently introduced traffic sign may not be recognized. Type Multi information display Speed limit begins ends Highway entrance exit Wet Speed limit with supplemental Rain mark Displayed simul taneously with Ice speed limit On off ramp Display example Supplemental mark exists Contents not rec ognized No overtaking begins ends All canceled All restrictions canceled. Returns to default road regulation. If the turn signal indicator is not operated when changing lanes the mark does not display. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Warning display In the following situations the RSA system alerts the driver using a warning display. When the vehicle speed exceeds the speed warning threshold applied to the speed limit of the sign displayed on the multi informa tion display the sign color becomes inverted. If it is detected that your vehicle is overtaking when a no overtaking sign is displayed on the multi information display the sign flashes. Depending on the situation traffic environment traffic direction speed unit may be detected incorrectly and a warning display may not operate properly. Automatic turn off of RSA sign display One or more signs automatically turn off in the following situations. A new sign is not recognized for a certain distance. The road changes due to a left or right turn etc. Conditions in which the function may not operate or detect correctly In the following situations RSA does not operate normally and may not rec ognize signs display the incorrect sign etc. However this does not indicate a malfunction. The camera sensor is misaligned due to a strong impact being applied to the sensor etc. Dirt snow stickers etc. are on the windshield near the camera sensor. In inclement weather such as heavy rain fog snow or sand storms Light from an oncoming vehicle the sun etc. enters the camera sensor. The sign is dirty faded tilted or bent and if an electronic sign the contrast is poor. All or part of the sign is hidden by the leaves of a tree a pole etc. The sign is only visible to the camera sensor for a short amount of time. The driving scene turning lane change etc. is judged incorrectly. Even if it is a sign not appropriate for the currently traveled lane such a sign exists directly after a freeway branches or in an adjacent lane just before merging. Stickers are attached to the rear of the preceding vehicle. A sign resembling a system compatible sign is recognized. The vehicle is driven in a country with a different direction of traffic. Side road speed signs may be detected and displayed if positioned in sight of the camera sensor while the vehicle is traveling on the main road. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Roundabout exit road speed signs may be detected and displayed if posi tioned in sight of the camera sensor while traveling on a roundabout. The speed information displayed on the meter and that displayed on the navigation system may be different due to the navigation system using map data. Turning the system on off Press of the meter control switches select. Press of the meter control switched select. Press of the meter control switch. Each time is pressed the function changes on off. Speed limit sign display If the power switch was last turned off while a speed limit sign was displayed on the multi information display the same sign displays again when the power switch is turned to ON mode. Customization Some functions can be customized. P. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range Summary of functions In vehicle to vehicle distance control mode the vehicle automatically accelerates decelerates and stops to match the speed changes of the preceding vehicle even if the accelerator pedal is not depressed. In constant speed control mode the vehicle runs at a fixed speed. Use the dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range on free ways and highways. Vehicle to vehicle distance control mode P. Constant speed control mode P. Meter display Display Set speed Indicators Operation switches Vehicle to vehicle distance switch RES switch Cruise control main switch Cancel switch SET switch CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems WARNING Before using dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range Driving safely is the sole responsibility of the driver. Do not rely solely on the system and drive safely by always paying careful attention to your surroundings. The dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range provides driving assistance to reduce the driver s burden. However there are limitations to the assistance provided. Read the following conditions carefully. Do not overly rely on this system and always drive carefully. cid When the sensor may not be correctly detecting the vehicle ahead P. cid Conditions under which the vehicle to vehicle distance control mode may not function correctly P. Set the speed appropriately depending on the speed limit traffic flow road conditions weather conditions etc. The driver is responsible for checking the set speed. Even when the system is functioning normally the condition of the preced ing vehicle as detected by the system may differ from the condition observed by the driver. Therefore the driver must always remain alert assess the danger of each situation and drive safely. Relying on this sys tem or assuming the system ensures safety while driving can lead to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems WARNING Cautions regarding the driving assist systems Observe the following precautions as there are limitations to the assistance provided by the system. Failure to do so may cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury. Assisting the driver to measure following distance The dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range is only intended to help the driver in determining the following distance between the driver s own vehicle and a designated vehicle traveling ahead. It is not a mecha nism that allows careless or inattentive driving and it is not a system that can assist the driver in low visibility conditions. It is still necessary for driver to pay close attention to the vehicle s surroundings. Assisting the driver to judge proper following distance The dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range determines whether the following distance between the driver s own vehicle and a designated vehicle traveling ahead is within a set range. It is not capable of making any other type of judgement. Therefore it is absolutely neces sary for the driver to remain vigilant and to determine whether or not there is a possibility of danger in any given situation. Assisting the driver to operate the vehicle The dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range has limited capabil ity to prevent or avoid a collision with a vehicle traveling ahead. Therefore if there is ever any danger the driver must take immediate and direct con trol of the vehicle and act appropriately in order to ensure the safety of all involved. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems WARNING To avoid inadvertent dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range activation Switch the dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range off using the cruise control main switch when not in use. Situations unsuitable for dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range Do not use dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range in any of the following situations. Doing so may result in inappropriate speed control and could cause an acci dent resulting in death or serious injury. Roads where there are pedestrians cyclists etc. In heavy traffic On roads with sharp bends On winding roads On slippery roads such as those covered with rain ice or snow On steep downhills or where there are sudden changes between sharp up and down gradients Vehicle speed may exceed the set speed when driving down a steep hill. At entrances to freeways and highways When weather conditions are bad enough that they may prevent the sen sors from detecting correctly fog snow sandstorm heavy rain etc. When there is rain snow etc. on the front surface of the radar sensor or camera sensor In traffic conditions that require frequent repeated acceleration and decel eration During emergency towing When an approach warning buzzer is heard often CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Driving in vehicle to vehicle distance control mode This mode employs a radar sensor to detect the presence of vehicles up to approximately m ft. ahead determines the current vehicle to vehicle following distance and operates to maintain a suit able following distance from the vehicle ahead. Note that vehicle to vehicle distance will close in when traveling on downhill slopes. Example of constant speed cruising When there are no vehicles ahead The vehicle travels at the speed set by the driver. The desired vehicle to vehicle distance can also be set by operating the vehicle to vehicle dis tance switch. Example of deceleration cruising and follow up cruising When a preceding vehicle driving slower than the set speed appears When a vehicle is detected running ahead of you the system automatically decelerates your vehicle. When a greater reduction in vehicle speed is necessary the system applies the brakes the stop lights will come on at this time. The system will respond to changes in the speed of the vehicle ahead in order to maintain the vehicle to vehicle distance set by the driver. Approach warning warns you when the system cannot decelerate suffi ciently to prevent your vehicle from closing in on the vehicle ahead. When the vehicle ahead of you stops your vehicle will also stop vehicle is stopped by system control. After the vehicle ahead starts off pressing the RES switch or depressing the accelerator pedal will resume follow up cruising. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Example of acceleration When there are no longer any preceding vehicles driving slower than the set speed The system accelerates until the set speed is reached. The system then returns to constant speed cruising. Setting the vehicle speed vehicle to vehicle distance control mode Press the cruise control main switch to activate the cruise control. Dynamic radar cruise control indi cator will come on and a message will be displayed on the multi infor mation display. Press the switch again to deacti vate the cruise control. If the cruise control main switch is pressed and held for. seconds or more the system turns on in constant speed control mode. P. Accelerate or decelerate with accelerator pedal operation to the desired vehicle speed at or above approximately km h mph and press the SET switch to set the speed. Cruise control SET indicator will come on. The vehicle speed at the moment the switch is released becomes the set speed. If the switch is operated while the vehicle speed is below approximately km h mph and a preceding vehicle is present the set speed will be adjusted to approximately km h mph. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Adjusting the set speed To change the set speed operate the RES or SET switch until the desired set speed is displayed. Increases the speed Except when the vehicle has been stopped by system control in vehi cle to vehicle distance control mode Decreases the speed Fine adjustment Press the switch. Large adjustment Press and hold the switch to change the speed and release when the desired speed is reached. In the vehicle to vehicle distance control mode the set speed will be increased or decreased as follows For Europe Fine adjustment By km h. mph or mph km h each time the switch is pressed Large adjustment Increases or decreases in km h. mph or mph km h increments for as long as the switch is held Except for Europe Fine adjustment By km h. mph or mph. km h each time the switch is pressed Large adjustment Increases or decreases in km h. mph or mph km h increments for as long as the switch is held In the constant speed control mode P. the set speed will be increased or decreased as follows Fine adjustment By km h. mph or mph. km h each time the switch is pressed Large adjustment The speed will continue to change while the switch is held. When the set speed is shown in km h When the set speed is shown in MPH CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Changing the vehicle to vehicle distance vehicle to vehicle dis tance control mode Pressing the switch changes the Preceding vehicle to vehicle distance as fol vehicle mark lows Long Medium Short The vehicle to vehicle distance is set automatically to long mode when the power switch is turned to ON mode. If a vehicle is running ahead of you the preceding vehicle mark will also be displayed. Vehicle to vehicle distance settings vehicle to vehicle distance control mode Select a distance from the table below. Note that the distances shown correspond to a vehicle speed of km h mph. Vehicle to vehicle distance increases decreases in accordance with vehicle speed. When the vehicle is stopped by system control the vehicle stops at a certain vehicle to vehicle distance depending on the situation. Distance options Vehicle to vehicle distance Long Approximately m ft. Medium Approximately m ft. Short Approximately m ft. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Resuming follow up cruising when the vehicle has been stopped by system control vehicle to vehicle distance control mode After the vehicle ahead of you starts off press the RES switch. Your vehicle will also resume fol low up cruising if the accelerator pedal is depressed after the vehi cle ahead of you starts off. Canceling and resuming the speed control Pressing the cancel switch can cels the speed control. The speed control is also canceled when the brake pedal is depressed. When the vehicle has been stopped by system control depressing the brake pedal does not cancel the setting. Pressing the RES switch resumes the cruise control and returns vehicle speed to the set speed. However when a vehicle ahead is not detected cruise control does not resume when the vehicle speed is approximately km h mph or less. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Approach warning vehicle to vehicle distance control mode When your vehicle is too close to a vehicle ahead and sufficient automatic deceleration via the cruise control is not possible the display will flash and the buzzer will sound to alert the driver. An example of this would be if another driver cuts in front of you while you are following a vehicle. Depress the brake pedal to ensure an appropriate vehicle to vehicle distance. Warnings may not occur when In the following instances warnings may not occur even when the vehicle to vehicle distance is small. When the speed of the preceding vehicle matches or exceeds your vehicle speed When the preceding vehicle is traveling at an extremely slow speed Immediately after the cruise control speed was set When depressing the accelerator pedal CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Selecting constant speed control mode When constant speed control mode is selected your vehicle will main tain a set speed without controlling the vehicle to vehicle distance. Select this mode only when vehicle to vehicle distance control mode does not function correctly due to a dirty radar sensor etc. With the cruise control off press and hold the cruise con trol main switch for. seconds or more. Immediately after the switch is pressed the dynamic radar cruise control indicator will come on. Afterwards it switches to the cruise control indicator. Switching to constant speed control mode is only possible when operating the switch with the cruise control off. Accelerate or decelerate with accelerator pedal operation to the desired vehicle speed at or above approximately km h mph and press the SET switch to set the speed. Cruise control SET indicator will come on. The vehicle speed at the moment the switch is released becomes the set speed. Adjusting the speed setting P. Canceling and resuming the speed setting P. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range can be set when The shift lever is in D or range or higher of S has been selected. Vehicle speed is at or above approximately km h mph. However when a preceding vehicle is detected the dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range can be set even if the vehicle speed is below approximately km h mph. Accelerating after setting the vehicle speed The vehicle can accelerate by operating the accelerator pedal. After acceler ating the set speed resumes. However during vehicle to vehicle distance control mode the vehicle speed may decrease below the set speed in order to maintain the distance to the preceding vehicle. When the vehicle stops while follow up cruising Pressing the RES switch while the vehicle ahead stops will resume fol low up cruising if the vehicle ahead starts off within approximately sec onds after the switch is pressed. If the vehicle ahead starts off within seconds after your vehicle stops fol low up cruising will be resumed. Automatic cancelation of vehicle to vehicle distance control mode Vehicle to vehicle distance control mode is automatically canceled in the fol lowing situations Actual vehicle speed falls at or below approximately km h mph when there are no vehicles ahead. The preceding vehicle leaves the lane when your vehicle is following at a vehicle speed at or below approximately km h mph. Otherwise the sensor cannot properly detect the vehicle. Radar Cruise Control Unavail able is displayed on the multi information display VSC is activated. TRC is activated for a period of time. When the VSC or TRC system is turned off. The sensor cannot detect correctly because it is covered in some way. Pre collision braking is activated. The parking brake is operated. The vehicle is stopped by system control on a steep incline. The following are detected when the vehicle has been stopped by system control cid The driver is not wearing a seat belt. cid The driver s door is opened. cid The vehicle has been stopped for about minutes If vehicle to vehicle distance control mode is automatically canceled for any other reason there may be a malfunction in the system. Contact any autho rized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Automatic cancelation of constant speed control mode Constant speed control mode is automatically canceled in the following situa tions Actual vehicle speed is more than approximately km h mph below the set vehicle speed. Actual vehicle speed falls below approximately km h mph. VSC is activated. TRC is activated for a period of time. When the VSC or TRC system is turned off. Pre collision braking is activated. If constant speed control mode is automatically canceled for any other rea son there may be a malfunction in the system. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Brake system operation sound If the brakes are applied automatically while the vehicle is in vehicle to vehi cle distance control mode a brake system operation sound may be heard. This does not indicate a malfunction. Warning messages and buzzers for dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range Warning messages and buzzers are used to indicate a system malfunction or to inform the driver of the need for caution while driving. If a warning message is shown on the multi information display read the message and follow the instructions. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems When the sensor may not be correctly detecting the vehicle ahead In the case of the following and depending on the conditions operate the brake pedal when deceleration of the system is insufficient or operate the accelerator pedal when acceleration is required. As the sensor may not be able to correctly detect these types of vehicles the approach warning P. may not be activated. Vehicles that cut in suddenly Vehicles traveling at low speeds Vehicles that are not moving in the same lane Vehicles with small rear ends trailers with no load on board etc. Motorcycles traveling in the same lane When water or snow thrown up by the surrounding vehicles hinders the detecting of the sensor When your vehicle is pointing upwards caused by a heavy load in the luggage compartment etc. Preceding vehicle has an extremely high ground clearance CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Conditions under which the vehicle to vehicle distance control mode may not function correctly In the case of the following conditions operate the brake pedal or accelera tor pedal depending on the situation as necessary. As the sensor may not be able to correctly detect vehicles ahead the system may not operate properly. When the road curves or when the lanes are narrow When steering wheel operation or your position in the lane is unstable When the vehicle ahead of you decelerates suddenly When driving on a road surrounded by a structure such as in a tunnel or on a bridge While the vehicle speed is decreasing to the set speed after the vehicle accelerates by depressing the accelerator pedal CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Driving assist systems To keep driving safety and performance the following systems operate automatically in response to various driving situations. Be aware however that these systems are supplementary and should not be relied upon too heavily when operating the vehi cle. ECB Electronically Controlled Brake System The electronically controlled system generates braking force corre sponding to the brake operation ABS Anti lock Brake System Helps to prevent wheel lock when the brakes are applied suddenly or if the brakes are applied while driving on a slippery road surface Brake assist Generates an increased level of braking force after the brake pedal is depressed when the system detects a panic stop situation VSC Vehicle Stability Control Helps the driver to control skidding when swerving suddenly or turning on slippery road surfaces. VSC Vehicle Stability Control Provides cooperative control of the ABS TRC VSC and EPS. Helps to maintain directional stability when swerving on slippery road surfaces by controlling steering performance. Secondary Collision Brake When the SRS airbag sensor detects a collision and the system operates the brakes and brake lights are automatically controlled to reduce the vehicle speed and help reduce the possibility of fur ther damage due to a secondary collision. TRC Traction Control Helps to maintain drive power and prevent the drive wheels from spinning when starting the vehicle or accelerating on slippery roads CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Hill start assist control Helps to reduce the backward movement of the vehicle when start ing on an uphill EPS Electric Power Steering Employs an electric motor to reduce the amount of effort needed to turn the steering wheel PCS Pre Collision System P. Emergency brake signal When the brakes are applied suddenly the emergency flashers automatically flash to alert the vehicle behind. BSM Blind Spot Monitor if equipped P. When the TRC VSC ABS systems are operating The slip indicator light will flash while the TRC VSC ABS systems are operating. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Disabling the TRC system If the vehicle gets stuck in mud dirt or snow the TRC system may reduce power from the hybrid system to the wheels. Pressing to turn the system off may make it easier for you to rock the vehicle in order to free it. To turn the TRC system off quickly press and release. The Traction Control Turned OFF will be shown on the multi informa tion display. Press again to turn the sys tem back on. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Turning off both TRC and VSC systems To turn the TRC and VSC systems off press and hold for more than seconds while the vehicle is stopped. The VSC OFF indicator light will come on and the Traction Control Turned OFF will be shown on the multi information display. Press again to turn the systems back on. Pre collision brake assist and pre collision braking will also be disabled. The PCS warning light will come on and the message will be shown on the multi information display. P. When the message is displayed on the multi information display show ing that TRC has been disabled even if has not been pressed TRC is temporary deactivated. If the information continues to show contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Operating conditions of hill start assist control When the following four conditions are met the hill start assist control will operate The shift lever is in a position other than P or N when starting off forward backward on an upward incline The vehicle is stopped The accelerator pedal is not depressed The parking brake is not engaged Automatic system cancelation of hill start assist control The hill start assist control will turn off in any of the following situations The shift lever is shifted to P or N The accelerator pedal is depressed The parking brake is engaged seconds at maximum elapsed after the brake pedal is released CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Sounds and vibrations caused by the ABS brake assist VSC TRC and hill start assist control systems A sound may be heard from the engine compartment when the brake pedal is depressed repeatedly when the hybrid system is started or just after the vehicle begins to move. This sound does not indicate that a malfunction has occurred in any of these systems. Any of the following conditions may occur when the above systems are operating. None of these indicates that a malfunction has occurred. cid Vibrations may be felt through the vehicle body and steering. cid A motor sound may be heard also after the vehicle comes to a stop. ECB operating sound ECB operating sound may be heard in the following cases but it does not indicate that a malfunction has occurred. Operating sound heard from the engine compartment when the brake pedal is operated. Motor sound of the brake system heard from the front part of the vehicle when the driver s door is opened. Operating sound heard from the engine compartment when one or two min utes passed after the stop of the hybrid system. EPS operation sound When the steering wheel is operated a motor sound whirring sound may be heard. This does not indicate a malfunction. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Automatic reactivation of TRC and VSC systems After turning the TRC and VSC systems off the systems will be automatically re enabled in the following situations When the power switch is turned off If only the TRC system is turned off the TRC will turn on when vehicle speed increases If both the TRC and VSC systems are turned off automatic re enabling will not occur when vehicle speed increases Secondary Collision Brake operating conditions The vehicle speed is approximately km h mph or more and the airbag sensor detects a collision. The Secondary Collision Brake will not operate when the vehicle speed is below approximately km h mph. Secondary Collision Brake automatic cancellation The Secondary Collision Brake is automatically canceled in the following situ ations The vehicle speed drops below approximately km h mph A certain amount of time elapses during operation The accelerator pedal is depressed a large amount Reduced effectiveness of the EPS system The effectiveness of the EPS system is reduced to prevent the system from overheating when there is frequent steering input over an extended period of time. The steering wheel may feel heavy as a result. Should this occur refrain from excessive steering input or stop the vehicle and turn the hybrid system off. The EPS system should return to normal within minutes. Operating conditions of emergency brake signal When the following conditions are met the emergency brake signal will oper ate The emergency flashers are off Actual vehicle speed is over km h mph The system judges from the vehicle deceleration that it is a sudden braking operation. Automatic system cancelation of emergency brake signal The emergency brake signal will be canceled in any of the following situa tions The emergency flashers are turned on The system judges from the vehicle deceleration that is not a sudden brak ing operation CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems WARNING The ABS does not operate effectively when The limits of tire gripping performance have been exceeded such as excessively worn tires on a snow covered road. The vehicle hydroplanes while driving at high speed on wet or slick roads. Stopping distance when the ABS is operating may exceed that of nor mal conditions The ABS is not designed to shorten the vehicle s stopping distance. Always maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in front of you especially in the following situations When driving on dirt gravel or snow covered roads When driving with tire chains When driving over bumps on the road When driving over roads with potholes or uneven surfaces TRC VSC may not operate effectively when Directional control and power may not be achievable while driving on slip pery road surfaces even if the TRC VSC system is operating. Drive the vehicle carefully in conditions where stability and power may be lost. Hill start assist control does not operate effectively when Do not overly rely on hill start assist control. Hill start assist control may not operate effectively on steep inclines and roads covered with ice. Unlike the parking brake hill start assist control is not intended to hold the vehicle stationary for an extended period of time. Do not attempt to use hill start assist control to hold the vehicle on an incline as doing so may lead to an accident. When the TRC ABS VSC is activated The slip indicator light flashes. Always drive carefully. Reckless driving may cause an accident. Exercise particular care when the indicator light flashes. When the TRC VSC systems are turned off Be especially careful and drive at a speed appropriate to the road condi tions. As these are the systems to help ensure vehicle stability and driving force do not turn the TRC VSC systems off unless necessary. Secondary Collision Brake Do not overly rely on the Secondary Collision Brake. This system is designed to help reduce the possibility of further damage due to a second ary collision however that effect changes according to various conditions. Overly relying on the system may result in death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems WARNING Replacing tires Make sure that all tires are of the specified size brand tread pattern and total load capacity. In addition make sure that the tires are inflated to the recommended tire inflation pressure level. The ABS TRC and VSC systems will not function correctly if different tires are installed on the vehicle. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer for further information when replacing tires or wheels. Handling of tires and the suspension Using tires with any kind of problem or modifying the suspension will affect the driving assist systems and may cause a system to malfunction. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems BSM Blind Spot Monitor Summary of the Blind Spot Monitor The Blind Spot Monitor is a system that has functions The BSM Blind Spot Monitor function Assists the driver in making a decision when changing lanes The RCTA Rear Crossing Traffic Alert function Assists the driver when backing up These functions use same sensors. Multi information display Turning the BSM function RCTA function on off. P. Outside rear view mirror indicators BSM function When a vehicle is detected in the blind spot the outside rear view mirror indicator comes on while the turn signal lever is not operated and the out side rear view mirror indicator flashes while the turn signal lever is oper ated. RCTA function When a vehicle approaching from the right or left rear of the vehicle is detected the outside rear view mirror indicators flash. BSM indicator RCTA indicator When the BSM function RCTA function is turned on the indicator illumi nates. If equipped CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Audio system screen RCTA function only If a vehicle approaching from the right or left at the rear of the vehicle is detected the RCTA icon P. for the detected side will be displayed. RCTA buzzer RCTA function only When a vehicle approaching from the right or left rear of the vehicle is detected a buzzer sounds from behind the rear seat. Turning the BSM function RCTA function on off Press of the meter control switches select. Press of the meter control switches select or. Press of the meter control switch. Each time is pressed the function changes on off. The outside rear view mirror indicators visibility When under strong sunlight the outside rear view mirror indicator may be dif ficult to see. RCTA buzzer hearing RCTA function may be difficult to hear over loud noises such as high audio volume. When Blind Spot Monitor Unavailable and Rear Cross Traffic Alert Unavailable are shown on the multi information display Ice snow mud etc. may be attached to the rear bumper around the sensors. P. The system should return to normal operation after removing the ice snow mud etc. from the rear bumper. Additionally the sensors may not operate normally when driving in extremely hot or cold environments. When there is a malfunction in the Blind Spot Monitor If a system malfunction is detected due to any of the following reasons a warning message will be displayed There is a malfunction with the sensors The sensors have become dirty The outside temperature is extremely high or low The sensor voltage has become abnormal CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Certification for the Blind Spot Monitor CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems WARNING Handling the radar sensor One Blind Spot Monitor sensor is installed inside the left and right side of the vehicle rear bumper respectively. Observe the following to ensure the Blind Spot Monitor can function correctly. Keep the sensor and its surrounding area on the bumper clean at all times. If a sensor or its surrounding area on the rear bumper is dirty or covered with snow the Blind Spot Monitor may not operate and a warning message will be displayed. In this situation clear off the dirt or snow and drive the vehicle with the operation conditions of the BSM func tion satisfied for approximately min utes. If the warning message does not disappear have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reli able repairer Do not subject a sensor or its surrounding area on the rear bumper to a strong impact. If a sensor is moved even slightly off position the system may malfunction and vehicles may not be detected correctly. In the following situations have your vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. cid A sensor or its surrounding area is subject to a strong impact. cid If the surrounding area of a sensor is scratched or dented or part of them has become disconnected. Do not disassemble the sensor. Do not attach accessories or stickers to the sensor or surrounding area on the bumper. Do not modify the sensor or surrounding area on the bumper. Do not paint the rear bumper any color other than an official Toyota color. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems BSM function The BSM function uses radar sensors to detect vehicles that are traveling in an adjacent lane in the area that is usually not reflected in the outside rear view mirror the blind spot and advises the driver of the vehicles existence via the outside rear view mirror indicator. BSM function detection areas The areas that vehicles can be detected in are outlined below. The range of the detection area extends to Approximately. m. ft. from the side of the vehicle The first. m. ft. from the side of the vehicle is not in the detection area Approximately m. ft. from the rear bumper Approximately m. ft. for ward of the rear bumper WARNING Cautions regarding the use of the system The driver is solely responsible for safe driving. Always drive safely taking care to observe your surroundings. The BSM function is a supplementary function which alerts the driver that a vehicle is present in the blind spot. Do not overly rely on the BSM function. The function cannot judge if it is safe to change lanes therefore over reli ance could cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury. According to conditions the system may not function correctly. Therefore the driver s own visual confirmation of safety is necessary. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems The BSM function is operational when The BSM function is turned on Vehicle speed is greater than approximately km h mph. The BSM function will detect a vehicle when A vehicle in an adjacent lane overtakes your vehicle. Another vehicle enters the detection area when it changes lanes. Conditions under which the BSM function will not detect a vehicle The BSM function is not designed to detect the following types of vehicles and or objects Small motorcycles bicycles pedestrians etc. Vehicles traveling in the opposite direction Guardrails walls signs parked vehicles and similar stationary objects Following vehicles that are in the same lane Vehicles driving lanes across from your vehicle Depending on the conditions detection of a vehicle and or object may occur. Conditions under which the BSM function may not function correctly The BSM function may not detect vehicles correctly in the following condi tions cid When the sensor is misaligned due to a strong impact to the sensor or its surrounding area cid During bad weather such as heavy rain fog snow etc. cid When ice or mud etc. is attached to the rear bumper cid When driving on a road surface that is wet due to rain standing water snow etc. cid When there is a significant difference in speed between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area cid When a vehicle is in the detection area from a stop and remains in the detection area as your vehicle accelerates cid When driving up or down consecutive steep inclines such as hills a dip on the road etc. cid When driving on roads with sharp bends consecutive curves or uneven surfaces cid When multiple vehicles approach with only a small gap between each vehicle cid When vehicle lanes are wide and the vehicle in the next lane is too far away from your vehicle cid When the vehicle that enters the detection area is traveling at about the same speed as your vehicle cid When there is a significant difference in height between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area cid Directly after the BSM function is turned on CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Instances of the BSM function unnecessarily detecting a vehicle and or object may increase under the following conditions cid When the sensor is misaligned due to a strong impact to the sensor or its surrounding area cid When there is only a short distance between your vehicle and a guardrail wall etc. cid When there is only a short distance between your vehicle and a following vehicle cid When vehicle lanes are narrow and a vehicle driving lanes across from your vehicle enters the detection area cid When items such as a bicycle carrier are installed on the rear of the vehi cle CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems RCTA function The RCTA functions when your vehicle is in reverse. It can detect other vehicles approaching from the right or left rear of the vehicle. It uses radar sensors to alert the driver of the other vehicle s existence through flashing the outside rear view mirror indicators and sounding a buzzer. Approaching vehicles Detection areas RCTA icon display When a vehicle approaching from the right or left at the rear of the vehicle is detected the following will be displayed on the audio sys tem screen. Toyota parking assist Content monitor A vehicle is approaching from the left or right at the rear of the vehicle The RCTA function is malfunctioning P. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems WARNING Cautions regarding the use of the system The driver is solely responsible for safe driving. Always drive safely taking care to observe your surroundings. The RCTA function is only an assist and is not a replacement for careful driving. Driver must be careful when backing up even when using RCTA function. The driver s own visual confirmation of behind you and your vehi cle is necessary and be sure there are no pedestrians other vehicles etc. before backing up. Failure to do so could cause death or serious injury. According to conditions the system may not function correctly. Therefore the driver s own visual confirmation of safety is necessary. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems RCTA function detection areas The areas that vehicles can be detected in are outlined below. To give the driver a more consistent time to react the buzzer can alert for faster vehicles from farther away. Example Approximate Approaching vehicle Speed alert distance Fast km h mph m ft. Slow km h mph. m ft. The RCTA function is operational when The RCTA function is turned on. The shift lever is in R. Vehicle speed is less than approximately km h mph. Approaching vehicle speed is between approximately km h mph and km h mph. Conditions under which the RCTA function will not detect a vehicle The RCTA function is not designed to detect the following types of vehicles and or objects Small motorcycles bicycles pedestrians etc. Vehicles approaching from directly behind Guardrails walls signs parked vehicles and similar stationary objects Vehicles moving away from your vehicle Vehicles approaching from the parking spaces next to your vehicle Vehicles backing up in the parking space next to your vehicle Depending on the conditions detection of a vehicle and or object may occur. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Conditions under which the RCTA function may not function correctly The RCTA function may not detect vehicles correctly in the following condi tions cid When the sensor is misaligned due to a strong impact to the sensor or its surrounding area cid When ice or mud etc. is attached to the rear bumper cid During bad weather such as heavy rain fog snow etc. cid When multiple vehicles approach continuously cid Shallow angle parking cid When a vehicle is approaching at high speed cid When parking on a steep incline such as hills a dip on the road etc. cid Directly after the RCTA function is turned on cid Directly after the hybrid system is started with the RCTA function on. cid Vehicles that the sensors cannot detect because of obstacles cid When items such as a bicycle carrier are installed on the rear of the vehi cle Instances of the RCTA function unnecessarily detecting a vehicle and or object may increase in the following situations cid When a vehicle passes by the side of your vehicle cid When the parking space faces a street and vehicles are being driven on the street cid When the distance between your vehicle and metal objects such as a guardrail wall sign or parked vehicle which may reflect electrical waves toward the rear of the vehicle is short Changing settings of the indicators on the outside rear view mir rors and RCTA buzzer The brightness of the indicators on the outside rear view mirrors and the volume of the RCTA buzzer can be changed on P. of the multi information display. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Toyota parking assist sensor The distance from your vehicle to nearby static objects when parallel parking or maneuvering into a garage is measured by the sensors and communicated via the displays and a buzzer. Always check the surrounding area when using this system. Types of sensors Front corner sensors Front center sensors if equipped Rear corner sensors Rear center sensors if equipped Turning the Toyota parking assist sensor on off Press of the meter con trol switches select. Press of the meter con trol switches select. Press of the meter con trol switch. Each time is pressed the function changes on off. When on the indicator light comes on to inform the driver that the sys tem is operational. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Display When the sensors detect an obstacle the following displays inform the driver of the position and distance to the obstacle. The illustration used is intended as an example and may differ from the image that is actually displayed on the multi information display. Multi information display Front corner sensor opera tion Front center sensor opera tion if equipped Rear corner sensor operation Rear center sensor operation if equipped Audio system screen Toyota parking assist sensor When the vehicle is moving backward. A simplified image is displayed on the upper part of the screen when an obstacle is detected. Muting the buzzer sound To mute the buzzer sound The buzzer can be temporarily muted by pressing of the meter con trol switches while an obstacle detection display is shown on the multi infor mation display. To cancel the mute Mute will be automatically cancelled in the following situations. cid When the shift position is changed cid When the vehicle speed has reached or exceeded approximately km h mph with the shift lever in D cid When the Toyota parking assist sensor is turned off once and turned on again cid When the power switch is turned off once and turned to ON mode again cid When a sensor is malfunctioning CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Sensor detection display obstacle distance Distance display Sensors that detect an obstacle will illuminate continuously or blink. Insert display Approximate distance to obstacle Multi informa Front and rear tion display Toyota parking Front and rear center sensor assist monitor corner sensor if equipped Front center Far sensor cm. ft. to cm. ft. Rear center sensor cm. ft. continuous blinking slowly to cm. ft. cm. ft. cm. ft. to to cm. ft. cm. ft. continuous blinking cm. ft. cm. ft. to to cm. ft. cm. ft. blinking continuous rapidly Less than Less than cm. ft. cm. ft. Near blinking continuous The images may differ from those shown in the illustrations. P. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Buzzer operation and distance to an obstacle A buzzer sounds when the sensors are operating. The buzzer sounds faster as the vehicle approaches an obstacle. When the vehicle comes within the following distance of the obstacle the buzzer sounds continuously Approximately cm. ft When or more obstacles are detected simultaneously the buzzer system responds to the nearest obstacle. If one or both come within the above distances the beep will repeat a long tone followed by fast beeps. Detection range of the sensors Approximately cm. ft. if equipped Approximately cm. ft. if equipped Approximately cm. ft. The diagram shows the detection range of the sensors. Note that the sensors cannot detect obstacles that are extremely close to the vehicle. The range of the sensors may change depending on the shape of the object etc. Changing the buzzer sounds volume The buzzer volume can be changed on the multi information display P. when the power switch is in the ON mode. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems The Toyota parking assist sensor can be operated when Front corner sensors cid The power switch is in ON mode. cid The shift lever is in other than P. cid The vehicle speed is less than about km h mph. Front center sensors if equipped cid The power switch is in ON mode. cid The shift lever is in other than P or R. cid The vehicle speed is less than about km h mph. Rear corner sensors cid The power switch is in ON mode. cid The shift lever is in R. cid The vehicle speed is less than about km h mph. Rear center sensors if equipped cid The power switch is in ON mode. cid The shift lever is in R. cid The vehicle speed is less than about km h mph. Toyota parking assist sensor display When an obstacle is detected while the Toyota parking assist monitor is in use the warning indicator will appear in the upper part of the screen even if the display setting has been set to off. Sensor detection information The sensor s detection areas are limited to the areas around the vehicle s bumper. Depending on the shape of the obstacle and other factors the detection dis tance may shorten or detection may be impossible. Obstacles may not be detected if they are too close to the sensor. There will be a short delay between obstacle detection and display. Even at slow speeds there is a possibility that the obstacle will come within the sen sor s detection areas before the display is shown and the buzzer sounds. Thin posts or objects lower than the sensor may not be detected when approached even if they have been detected once. It might be difficult to hear beeps due to the volume of audio system or air flow noise of the air conditioning system. If Parking Assist Unavailable Please Clean Parking Assist Sensor is displayed on the multi information display A sensor may be dirty or covered with snow or ice. In such cases if it is removed from the sensor the system should return to normal. Also due to the sensor being frozen at low temperatures a malfunction dis play may appear or an obstacle may not be detected. If the sensor thaws out the system should return to normal. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems WARNING When using the Toyota parking assist sensor Observe the following precautions. Failing to do so may result in the vehicle being unable to be driven safely and possibly cause an accident. Do not use the sensor at speeds in excess of km h mph. The sensors detection areas and reaction times are limited. When moving forward or reversing check the areas surrounding the vehicle especially the sides of the vehicle for safety and drive slowly using the brake to control the vehicle s speed. Do not install accessories within the sensors detection areas. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems WARNING Sensors Certain vehicle conditions and the surrounding environment may affect the ability of a sensor to correctly detect an obstacle. Particular instances where this may occur are listed below. There is dirt snow or ice on the sensor. Wiping the sensors will resolve this problem. The sensor is frozen. Thawing the area will resolve this problem. In especially cold weather if a sensor is frozen the screen may show an abnormal display or obstacles may not be detected. The sensor is covered in any way. The vehicle is leaning considerably to one side. On an extremely bumpy road on an incline on gravel or on grass. The vicinity of the vehicle is noisy due to vehicle horns motorcycle engines air brakes of large vehicles or other loud noises producing ultra sonic waves. There is another vehicle equipped with parking assist sensors in the vicin ity. The sensor is coated with a sheet of spray or heavy rain. The sensor is drenched with water on a flooded road. The vehicle is equipped with a fender pole or wireless antenna. Towing eyelets are installed. The bumper or sensor receives a strong impact. The vehicle is approaching a tall or curved curb. The detection range is reduced due to an object such as a sign. In harsh sunlight or intense cold weather. The area directly under the bumpers is not detected. If obstacles draw too close to the sensor. A non genuine Toyota suspension lowered suspension etc. is installed. A backlit license plate is installed. In addition to the examples above there are instances in which because of their shape signs and other objects may be judged by a sensor to be closer than they are. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems WARNING Obstacles which may not be properly detected The shape of the obstacle may prevent a sensor from detecting it. Pay par ticular attention to the following obstacles Wires fences ropes etc. Cotton snow and other materials that absorb sound waves Sharply angled objects Low obstacles Tall obstacles with upper sections projecting outwards in the direction of your vehicle People may not be detected if they are wearing certain types of clothing. Moving objects such as people or animals NOTICE When using Toyota parking assist sensor In the following situations the system may not function correctly due to a sensor malfunction etc. Have the vehicle checked by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. The Toyota parking assist sensor operation display flashes and a buzzer sounds when no obstacles are detected. If the area around a sensor collides with something or is subjected to strong impact. If the bumper collides with something. If the display shows continuously without beeping except when the buzzer volume is muted. If a display error occurs first check the sensor. If the error occurs even if there is no ice snow or mud on the sensor it is likely that the sensor is malfunctioning. Notes when washing the vehicle Do not apply intensive bursts of water or steam to the sensor area. Doing so may result in the sensor malfunctioning. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Intelligent Clearance Sonar ICS If a collision with an object may occur due to the vehicle sud denly moving forward due to an accidental accelerator pedal operation the vehicle moving the unintended direction due to the wrong shift position being selected or while parking or traveling at low speeds the sensors detect objects such as a wall in the traveling direction of the vehicle and the system operates to lessen an impact with an object and reduce the resulting damage. Examples of system operation The system will operate in situations such as the following if an object is detected in the traveling direction of the vehicle. When traveling at a low speed and the brake pedal is not depressed or is depressed late If equipped CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems When the accelerator pedal is depressed excessively When the vehicle moves in the unintended direction due to the wrong shift position being selected CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function If a radar sensor detects a vehicle approaching from the right or left at the rear of the vehicle and a collision may occur this function will per form brake control to reduce the likelihood of an impact with the approaching vehicle. Examples of system operation The system will operate in situations such as the following if an object is detected in the traveling direction of the vehicle. When reversing a vehicle is approaching and the brake pedal is not depressed or is depressed late CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Types of sensors Front corner sensors Front center sensors Rear corner sensors Rear center sensors Turning the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system on off Press of the meter con trol switches select. Press of the meter con trol switches select. Press of the meter con trol switch. Select the Yes and push. When the Intelligent Clearance Sonar is disabled the ICS OFF indicator illuminates. To re enable the system when it was disabled select on the multi infor mation display select and then On. If disabled using this method the system will not be re enabled by turning the power switch off and then to ON mode. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Displays and buzzers for hybrid system output restriction con trol and brake control If the hybrid system output restriction control or brake control oper ates a buzzer will sound and a message will be displayed on the multi information display to alert the driver. Depending on the situation hybrid system output restriction control will operate to either limit acceleration or restrict output as much as possible. Multi information ICS OFF Control Situation Buzzer display Indicator Hybrid system Acceleration output restriction Object Detected greater than a control is operat Ahead Speed certain amount is ing acceleration Reduced not possible. restriction Hybrid system output restriction Not illu Stronger than control is operat minated normal brake ing output operation is nec Short restricted as essary. Brake! beep much as possi ble Brake control is Emergency brak operating ing is necessary. The vehicle has Vehicle stopped been stopped by Switch to Illumi by system opera brake control Brake nated tion operation. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Intelligent Clearance Sonar function If the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function detects that a collision with an object is possible the hybrid system output will be restricted to restrain any increase in the vehicle speed. Hybrid system output restriction control See A below. Additionally if the accelerator pedal continues to be depressed the brakes will be applied automatically to reduce the vehicle speed. Brake control See B below. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems On Off Time On Off Down Time On Off Down Up Time Accelerator pedal Start of control Brake pedal High possibility of a collision Hybrid system output Extremely high possibility of a Braking force collision CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems The Intelligent Clearance Sonar function will operate when The function will operate when the ICS OFF indicator is not illuminated or flashing P. and all of the following conditions are met Hybrid system output restriction control cid The Intelligent Clearance Sonar system is enabled. cid The vehicle speed is km h mph or less. cid There is an object in the traveling direction of the vehicle and to m to ft. away. cid The system determines that a stronger than normal brake operation is necessary to avoid a collision. Brake control cid Hybrid system output restriction control is operating. cid The system determines that an emergency brake operation is necessary to avoid a collision. The Intelligent Clearance Sonar function will stop operating when The function will stop operating if any of the following conditions are met Hybrid system output restriction control cid The Intelligent Clearance Sonar system is disabled. cid The collision becomes avoidable with normal brake operation. cid The object is no longer to m to ft. away in the traveling direction of the vehicle. Brake control cid The Intelligent Clearance Sonar system is disabled. cid Approximately seconds elapse after the vehicle is stopped by brake control. cid The brake pedal is depressed after the vehicle is stopped by brake con trol. cid The object is no longer to m to ft. away in the traveling direction of the vehicle. Detection range of the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function The detection range of the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function differs from the detection range of the Toyota parking assist sensor. P. Therefore even if the Toyota parking assist sensor detects an object and pro vides a warning the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function may not start oper ating. If the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function has operated If the vehicle is stopped due to operation of the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system will be disabled and the ICS OFF indicator will illuminate. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Re enabling the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system To re enable the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system when it is disabled due to operation of the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function either enable the sys tem again P. or turn the power switch off and then back to ON mode. Additionally if the object becomes no longer in the traveling direction of the vehicle or if the traveling direction of the vehicle changes such as changing from moving forward to backing up or from backing up to moving forward the system will be re enabled automatically. Objects that the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function may not detect The sensors may not be able to detect certain objects such as the following. Cotton cloth snow and other materials that are poor reflectors of ultrasonic waves. People may also not be detected depending on the type of clothing they are wearing. Objects which are not perpendicular to the ground are not perpendicular to the traveling direction of the vehicle are uneven or are waving. Low objects Thin objects such as wires fences ropes and signposts Objects that are extremely close to the bumper Toyota parking assist sensor buzzer Regardless of whether the Toyota parking assist sensor system is enabled or not P. if the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system is enabled P. the front or rear sensors detect an object and brake control is per formed the Toyota parking assist sensor buzzer will sound to notify the driver of the approximate distance to the object. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Situations in which the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function may operate even if there is no possibility of a collision In some situations such as the following the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function may operate even though there is no possibility of a collision. Vehicle surroundings cid When driving on a narrow road cid When driving on a gravel road or in an area with tall grass cid When driving toward a banner flag low hanging branch or boom barrier such as those used at railroad crossings toll gates and parking lots. cid When driving on a narrow path surrounded by a structure such as in a tunnel or on an iron bridge cid When parallel parking cid When there is a rut or hole in the surface of the road cid When driving on a metal cover grating such as those used for drainage ditches cid When driving on a steep slope cid If a sensor is hit by a large amount of water such as when driving on a flooded road Weather cid If a sensor is covered with ice snow dirt etc. when cleared the system will return to normal cid If heavy rain or water strikes a sensor cid When driving in inclement weather such as fog snow or a sandstorm Other ultrasonic waves sources cid When vehicle horns vehicle detectors motorcycle engines air brakes of large vehicles the clearance sonar of other vehicles or other devices which produce ultrasonic waves are near the vehicle cid If a sticker or an electronic component such as a backlit license plate especially fluorescent type fog lights a fender pole or wireless antenna is installed near a sensor CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Changes in the vehicle posture cid If the vehicle is significantly tilted cid If the front of the vehicle is raised or lowered due to the carried load cid If the orientation of a sensor has been changed due to a collision or other impact If the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function operates unnecessarily such as at a railroad crossing Even in the event that the Intelligent Clearance Sonar function operates unnecessarily such as at a railroad crossing brake control will be canceled after approximately seconds allowing you to proceed forward and leave the area Brake control can also be canceled by depressing the brake pedal. Depressing the accelerator pedal again will allow you to proceed forward and leave the area. Situations in which the Intelligent Clearance Sonar Brake function may not operate properly In some situations such as the following this function may not operate prop erly. Weather cid When a sensor or the area around a sensor is extremely hot or cold cid When strong winds are blowing cid If a sensor is covered with ice snow dirt etc. when cleared the system will return to normal cid If heavy rain or water strikes a sensor cid When driving in inclement weather such as fog snow or a sandstorm Vehicle surroundings cid When an object that cannot be detected is between the vehicle and a detected object cid If an object such as a vehicle motorcycle bicycle or pedestrian cuts in front of the vehicle or runs out from the side of the vehicle. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Other ultrasonic waves sources cid When vehicle horns vehicle detectors motorcycle engines air brakes of large vehicles the clearance sonar of other vehicles or other devices which produce ultrasonic waves are near the vehicle cid If a sticker or an electronic component such as a backlit license plate especially fluorescent type fog lights a fender pole or wireless antenna is installed near a sensor Changes in the vehicle posture cid If the vehicle is significantly tilted cid If the front of the vehicle is raised or lowered due to the carried load cid If the orientation of a sensor has been changed due to a collision or other impact If a volt battery terminal has been disconnected and reconnected The system needs to be initialized. To initialize the system drive the vehicle straight ahead for seconds or more at a speed of approximately km h mph or more. If PKSB Unavailable is displayed on the multi information display and the ICS OFF indicator is flashing A sensor may be covered with ice snow dirt etc. Remove the ice snow dirt etc. from the sensor to return the system to normal. Also due to ice forming on a sensor at low temperatures a warning mes sage may be displayed or the sensor may not be able to detect an object. Once the ice melts the system will return to normal. If this message continues to be displayed even after cleaning the sensor or is displayed even though the sensor is clean have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Initialization may not have been performed after a volt battery terminal was disconnected and reconnected. Initialize the system. P. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems WARNING Limitations of the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system Do not overly rely on the system as doing so may lead to an accident. The driver is solely responsible for safe driving. Always drive carefully tak ing care to observe your surroundings. The Intelligent Clearance Sonar system is designed to provide support to lessen the severity of collisions. However it may not operate in some situations. The Intelligent Clearance Sonar system is not designed to stop the vehicle completely. Additionally even if the system has stopped the vehicle it is necessary to depress the brake pedal immediately as brake control will be canceled after approximately seconds. To ensure the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system can operate properly Observe the following precautions regarding the sensors P Failure to do so may cause a sensor to not operate properly and may cause an accident. Do not modify disassemble or paint the sensors. Do not replace a sensor with a part other than a genuine part. Do not subject a sensor or its surrounding area to a strong impact. Do not damage the sensors and always keep them clean. Observe the following precautions regarding the radar sensors P Failure to do so may cause a radar sensor to not operate properly and may cause an accident. Do not modify disassemble or paint the sensors. Do not replace a radar sensor with a part other than a genuine part. Do not subject a radar sensor or its surrounding area to a strong impact. Do not damage the radar sensors and always keep the radar sensors and their surrounding area on the bumper clean. Handling the suspension Do not modify the suspension as changes to the height or inclination of the vehicle may prevent the sensors from detecting objects correctly or cause the system to not operate or operate unnecessarily. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems NOTICE To prevent the system from malfunctioning If the area around a sensor is subjected to an impact the system may not operate properly due to the sensor being misaligned. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. When using a high pressure washer to wash the vehicle do not spray the sensors directly as doing so may cause a sensor to malfunction. When using steam to clean the vehicle do not direct steam too close to the sensors as doing so may cause a sensor to malfunction. To prevent a radar sensor from malfunctioning If the area around a radar sensor is subjected to an impact the system may not operate properly due to a sensor malfunction. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Observe the radar sensor handling precautions. P. To prevent unnecessary operation of the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system In the following situations disable the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system as the system may operate even though there is no possibility of a collision. When inspecting the vehicle using a chassis roller chassis dynamo or free roller When loading the vehicle onto a boat truck or other transport vessel If the suspension has been modified or tires of a size other than specified are installed If the front of the vehicle is raised or lowered due to the carried load When equipment that may obstruct a sensor is installed such as a towing eyelet bumper protector an additional trim strip etc. bicycle carrier or snow plow When using an automatic car wash CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function If the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function detects that a collision with an approaching vehicle is possible the hybrid system output will be restricted to restrain any increase in vehicle speed. Hybrid system output restriction control See A below. Additionally if the accelerator pedal continues to be depressed the brakes will be applied automatically to reduce the vehicle speed. Brake control See B below. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems On Off Time On Off Down Time On Off Down Up Time Accelerator pedal Start of control Brake pedal High possibility of a collision Hybrid system output Extremely high possibility of a Braking force collision CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems The Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function will operate when The function will operate when the ICS OFF indicator is not illuminated or flashing P. and all of the following conditions are met Hybrid system output restriction control cid The Intelligent Clearance Sonar with Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake is enabled. cid The vehicle speed is km h mph or less. cid The shift lever is in R. cid The system determines that a stronger than normal brake operation is necessary to avoid a collision with an approaching vehicle. Brake control cid Hybrid system output restriction control is operating. cid The system determines that an emergency brake operation is necessary to avoid a collision with an approaching vehicle. The Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function will stop operating when The function will stop operating if any of the following conditions are met Hybrid system output restriction control cid The Intelligent Clearance Sonar with Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake is disabled. cid The collision becomes avoidable with normal brake operation. cid A vehicle is no longer approaching from the right or left at the rear of the vehicle. Brake control cid The Intelligent Clearance Sonar with Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake is disabled. cid Approximately seconds elapse after the vehicle is stopped by brake control. cid The brake pedal is depressed after the vehicle is stopped by brake con trol. cid A vehicle is no longer approaching from the right or left at the rear of the vehicle. Detection area of the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function The detection area of the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function differs from the detection area of the RCTA function P Therefore even if the RCTA function detects a vehicle and provides an alert the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function may not start operating. If the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function has operated If the vehicle is stopped due to operation of the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function will be disabled and the ICS OFF indicator will illuminate. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Re enabling the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function To re enable the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function when it is disabled while it is operating either enable the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system again P. or turn the power switch off and then back to ON mode. When the function is disabled the ICS OFF indicator will illuminate. P. If there is no longer a vehicle approaching from the right or left at the rear of the vehicle when backing up or if the traveling direction of the vehicle changes such as changing from backing up to moving forward the system will be re enabled automatically. When the function is re enabled the ICS OFF indicator will turn off. Conditions under which the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function will not detect a vehicle The Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function is not designed to detect the following types of vehicles and or objects Vehicles approaching from directly behind Vehicles backing up in a parking space next to your vehicle Vehicles that the sensors cannot detect due to obstructions Vehicles which suddenly accelerate or decelerate near your vehicle Guardrails walls signs parked vehicles and similar stationary objects Small motorcycles bicycles pedestrians etc. Vehicles moving away from your vehicle Vehicles approaching from the parking spaces next to your vehicle Depending on the conditions detection of a vehicle and or object may occur. RCTA function buzzer Regardless of whether the RCTA function is enabled or not P. if the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function is enabled and brake control is per formed a buzzer will sound to notify the driver. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Situations in which the system may operate even though there is no possibility of a collision In some situations such as the following the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function may operate even though there is no possibility of a collision. When the parking space faces a street and vehicles are being driven on the street When a detected vehicle turns while approaching the vehicle When a vehicle passes by the side of your vehicle When the distance between your vehicle and metal objects such as a guardrail wall sign or parked vehicle which may reflect electrical waves toward the rear of the vehicle is short When water is splashed or sprayed toward the rear bumper such as from a sprinkler CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Situations in which the Rear Crossing Traffic Auto Brake function may not operate properly In some situations such as the following this function may not operate prop erly. Objects and vehicles which the radar sensors are not designed to detect cid Stationary objects cid Vehicles which are moving away from your vehicle cid Pedestrians motorcycles bicycles etc. cid Objects which are extremely close to a radar sensor cid Vehicles which are approaching from the right or left at the rear of the vehicle at a traveling speed of less than approximately km h mph cid Vehicles which are approaching from the right or left at the rear of the vehicle at a traveling speed of more than approximately km h mph Depending on conditions detection of a vehicle and or object may occur. Situations in which the radar sensors may not be able to detect an object cid When a sensor or the area around a sensor is extremely hot or cold cid If the rear bumper is covered with ice snow dirt etc. cid If heavy rain or water strikes the vehicle cid When the detection area of a radar sensor is obstructed by an adjacent vehicle cid If the vehicle is significantly tilted cid When equipment that may obstruct a sensor is installed such as a towing eyelet bumper protector an additional trim strip etc. bicycle carrier or snow plow cid If the suspension has been modified or tires of a size other than specified are installed cid If the front of the vehicle is raised or lowered due to the carried load cid If a sticker or an electronic component such as a backlit license plate especially fluorescent type fog lights a fender pole or wireless antenna is installed near a radar sensor cid If the orientation of a radar sensor has been changed due to a collision or other impact or removal and installation cid When multiple vehicles are approaching with only a small gap between each vehicle cid When a vehicle is approaching at high speed Situations in which the radar sensor may not detect a vehicle cid When a vehicle approaches from the right or left at the rear of the vehicle while you are turning while backing up cid When turning while backing up CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems cid When backing out of a shallow angle parking spot cid Vehicles that the sensors cannot detect due to obstructions cid When backing up on a slope with a sharp change in grade cid When a vehicle turns into the detec tion area Handling the radar sensors P. CAMRY HV EE. Using the driving support systems Driving mode select switches The driving modes can be selected to suit driving condition. Normal mode Use for normal driving. While in Eco drive mode or sport mode press the switch to change the driving mode to normal mode. Eco drive mode Use Eco drive mode to help achieve low fuel consumption during trips that involve frequent accelerating. When the ECO switch is pressed the ECO MODE indicator comes on in the instrument cluster. Sport mode Use sport mode when increased acceleration response and precise handling is desired for example when driving on mountain roads. When the SPORT switch is pressed the SPORT indicator comes on in the instrument cluster. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Using the driving support systems Operation of the air conditioning system in Eco drive mode Eco drive mode controls the heating cooling operations and fan speed of the air conditioning system to enhance fuel efficiency P To improve air conditioning performance adjust the fan speed or turn off Eco drive mode. Auto Glide Control While driving in Eco drive mode with D selected releasing the accelerator pedal will activate Auto Glide Control under certain conditions. Auto Glide Control may activate before the acceler ator pedal is fully released. When Auto Glide Control operates the electric motor traction motor will be controlled reducing the deceleration force and allowing the vehicle to coast enhancing fuel economy. When Auto Glide Control operates the AGC indicator light will illuminate. Auto Glide Control may not operate in the following situations cid When the brake pedal is depressed cid When a shift position other than D is selected cid When the vehicle speed is approximately km h mph or lower cid When the vehicle is accelerating on a downward slope cid When the PCS Pre Collision System is operating cid When the dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range is operating cid When the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system is operating if equipped cid When the TRC or VSC system is operating cid When the TRC or VSC system is disabled by pressing the VSC OFF switch Sport mode automatic deactivation Sport mode is automatically deactivated if the power switch is turned off after driving in sport mode. CAMRY HV EE. Driving tips Hybrid vehicle driving tips For economical and ecological driving pay attention to the fol lowing points Using Eco drive mode When using Eco drive mode the torque corresponding to the accel erator pedal depression amount can be generated more smoothly than it is in normal conditions. In addition the operation of the air conditioning system heating cooling will be minimized improving the fuel economy. P. Use of Hybrid System Indicator The Eco friendly driving is possible by keeping the needle of Hybrid System Indicator within Eco area. P. Shift lever operation Shift the shift lever to D when stopped at a traffic light or driving in heavy traffic etc. Shift the shift lever to P when parking. When using the N there is no positive effect on fuel consumption. In the N the gasoline engine operates but electricity cannot be generated. Also when using the air conditioning system etc. the hybrid battery traction battery power is consumed. Accelerator pedal brake pedal operation Drive your vehicle smoothly. Avoid abrupt acceleration and deceleration. Gradual acceleration and deceleration will make more effective use of the electric motor traction motor without having to use gasoline engine power. Avoid repeated acceleration. Repeated acceleration consumes hybrid battery traction battery power resulting in poor fuel con sumption. Battery power can be restored by driving with the accelerator pedal slightly released. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving tips When braking Make sure to operate the brakes gently and in a timely manner. A greater amount of electrical energy can be regenerated when slow ing down. Delays Repeated acceleration and deceleration as well as long waits at traffic lights will lead to bad fuel economy. Check traffic reports before leaving and avoid delays as much as possible. When driving in a traffic jam gently release the brake pedal to allow the vehicle to move forward slightly while avoiding overuse of the accelerator pedal. Doing so can help control excessive gasoline consumption. Highway driving Control and maintain the vehicle at a constant speed. Before stop ping at a toll booth or similar allow plenty of time to release the accelerator and gently apply the brakes. A greater amount of elec trical energy can be regenerated when slowing down. Air conditioning Use the air conditioning only when necessary. Doing so can help reduce excessive gasoline consumption. In summer When the ambient temperature is high use the recircu lated air mode. Doing so will help to reduce the burden on the air conditioning system and reduce fuel consumption as well. In winter Because the gasoline engine will not automatically cut out until it and the interior of the vehicle are warm it will consume fuel. Also fuel consumption can be improved by avoiding overuse of the heater. Checking tire inflation pressure Make sure to check the tire inflation pressure frequently. Improper tire inflation pressure can cause poor fuel economy. Also as snow tires can cause large amounts of friction their use on dry roads can lead to poor fuel economy. Use tires that are appro priate for the season. CAMRY HV EE. Driving tips Luggage Carrying heavy luggage will lead to poor fuel economy. Avoid carry ing unnecessary luggage. Installing a large roof rack will also cause poor fuel economy. Warming up before driving Since the gasoline engine starts up and cuts out automatically when cold warming up the engine is unnecessary. Moreover fre quently driving short distances will cause the engine to repeatedly warm up which can lead to excess fuel consumption. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving tips Winter driving tips Carry out the necessary preparations and inspections before driving the vehicle in winter. Always drive the vehicle in a man ner appropriate to the prevailing weather conditions. Preparation for winter Use fluids that are appropriate to the prevailing outside tempera tures. cid Engine oil cid Engine power control unit coolant cid Washer fluid Have a service technician inspect the condition of the volt bat tery. Have the vehicle fitted with four snow tires or purchase a set of tire chains for the front tires. Ensure that all tires are the same size and brand and that chains match the size of the tires. Tire chains cannot be mounted on vehicles with inch tires. Before driving the vehicle Perform the following according to the driving conditions Do not try to forcibly open a window or move a wiper that is frozen. Pour warm water over the frozen area to melt the ice. Wipe away the water immediately to prevent it from freezing. To ensure proper operation of the climate control system fan remove any snow that has accumulated on the air inlet vents in front of the windshield. Check for and remove any excess ice or snow that may have accu mulated on the exterior lights vehicle s roof chassis around the tires or on the brakes. Remove any snow or mud from the bottom of your shoes before getting in the vehicle. CAMRY HV EE. Driving tips When driving the vehicle Accelerate the vehicle slowly keep a safe distance between you and the vehicle ahead and drive at a reduced speed suitable to road con ditions. When parking the vehicle Park the vehicle and move the shift lever to P without setting the parking brake. The parking brake may freeze up preventing it from being released. If the vehicle is parked without setting the parking brake make sure to block the wheels. Failure to do so may be dangerous because it may cause the vehi cle to move unexpectedly possibly leading to an accident. If the vehicle is parked without setting the parking brake confirm that the shift lever cannot be moved out of P. The shift lever will be locked if it is attempted to be shifted from P to any other position without depressing the brake pedal. If the shift lever can be shifted from P there may be a problem with the shift lock system. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. Selecting tire chains Vehicles with inch tires Use the correct tire chain size when mounting the tire chains. Chain size is regulated for each tire size. Side chain mm. in. in diameter mm. in. in width mm. in. in length Cross chain mm. in. in diameter mm. in. in width mm. in. in length Vehicles with inch tires Tire chains cannot be mounted. Snow tires should be used instead. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving tips Regulations on the use of tire chains Regulations regarding the use of tire chains vary depending on loca tion and type of road. Always check local regulations before installing chains. Tire chain installation Observe the following precautions when installing and removing chains Install and remove tire chains in a safe location. Install tire chains on the front tires. Do not install tire chains on the rear tires. Install tire chains on front tires as tightly as possible. Retighten chains after driving km mile. Install tire chains following the instructions provided with the tire chains. WARNING Driving with snow tires Observe the following precautions to reduce the risk of accidents. Failure to do so may result in a loss of vehicle control and cause death or serious injury. Use tires of the specified size. Maintain the recommended level of air pressure. Do not drive at speeds in excess of the speed limit or the speed limit spec ified for the snow tires being used. Use snow tires on all not just some wheels. Driving with tire chains vehicles with inch tires Observe the following precautions to reduce the risk of accidents. Failure to do so may result in the vehicle being unable to be driven safely and may cause death or serious injury. Do not drive in excess of the speed limit specified for the tire chains being used or km h mph whichever is lower. Avoid driving on bumpy road surfaces or over potholes. Avoid sudden acceleration abrupt steering sudden braking and shifting operations that cause sudden engine braking. Slow down sufficiently before entering a curve to ensure that vehicle con trol is maintained. Do not use LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control system. CAMRY HV EE. Driving tips NOTICE Repairing or replacing snow tires Request repairs or replacement of snow tires from any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer or legitimate tire retailers. This is because the removal and attachment of snow tires affects the opera tion of the tire pressure warning valve and transmitters. Fitting tire chains vehicles with inch tires The tire pressure warning valve and transmitters may not function correctly when tire chains are fitted. CAMRY HV EE Driving. Driving tips CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the air. Using the storage conditioning system features and defogger List of storage features Automatic air cid Glove box conditioning system cid Console box Seat heaters cid Coin holder. Using the interior lights cid Bottle holders Interior lights list cid Cup holders cid Interior lights cid Auxiliary boxes cid Personal lights cid Open tray cid Rear seat center Trunk features armrest light. Other interior features Other interior features cid Sun visors cid Vanity mirrors cid Power outlet cid USB charging ports cid Wireless charger cid Armrest cid Rear sunshade cid Rear door sunshades cid Assist grips cid Coat hooks CAMRY HV EE. Using the air conditioning system and defogger Automatic air conditioning system Air outlets and fan speed are automatically adjusted according to the temperature setting. The illustrations below are for left hand drive vehicles. The button positions will differ for right hand drive vehicles. Also the display and button positions will differ depending on the type of the system. Air conditioning controls Front control panel Type A Type B CAMRY HV EE. Using the air conditioning system and defogger Rear control panel if equipped Adjusting the temperature setting Front control panel To adjust the temperature setting turn clockwise to increase the temperature and counterclockwise to decrease the tempera ture. If is not pressed the system will blow ambient temperature air or heated air. Rear control panel if equipped To adjust the temperature setting perform the following procedure Fold down the rear armrest P. Press to turn the rear control panel on. Touch of to increase the temperature and to decrease the temperature. The rear control panel will turn off if it is not touched for approximately seconds. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the air conditioning system and defogger Fan speed setting To adjust the fan speed press to increase the fan speed and to decrease the fan speed. Press to turn the fan off. Change the airflow mode To change the airflow mode press. The air outlets used are switched each time the button is pressed. Air flows to the upper body. Air flows to the upper body and feet. Air flows to the feet. Air flows to the feet and the windshield defogger oper ates. Using automatic mode Press. The dehumidification function begins to operate. Air outlets and fan speed are automatically adjusted according to the temperature set ting. Adjust the temperature setting. To stop the operation press. Automatic mode indicator If the fan speed setting or air flow modes are operated the auto matic mode indicator goes off. However automatic mode for func tions other than that operated is maintained. CAMRY HV EE. Using the air conditioning system and defogger Adjusting the temperature for driver and passenger seats sep arately vehicles with dual control mode To turn on the dual control mode perform any of the following pro cedures Press. Adjust the passenger s side temperature setting. The indicator comes on when the dual control mode is on. Adjusting the temperature for driver front passenger and rear seats separately vehicles with zone control mode To turn on the zone control mode perform any of the following procedures Press. Adjust the passenger s side temperature setting. Adjust the rear temperature setting. The indicator comes on when the zone control mode is on. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the air conditioning system and defogger Other functions Switching between outside air and recirculated air modes Press. The mode switches between outside air mode indicator off and recir culated air mode indicator on each time is pressed. Defogging the windshield Defoggers are used to defog the windshield and front side win dows. Press. The dehumidification function operates and fan speed increases. Set the outside recirculated air mode button to the outside air mode if the recirculated air mode is used. It may switch automatically. To defog the windshield and the side windows early turn the air flow and temperature up. To return to the previous mode press again when the windshield is defogged. Defogging the rear window and outside rear view mirrors Defoggers are used to defog the rear window and to remove rain drops dew and frost from the outside rear view mirrors. Press. The defoggers will automatically turn off after a period of time. Blower customization vehicles with FAST ECO switch Fan speed setting during the automatic mode operation can be cus tomized. To change the fan speed setting mode press. Each time is pressed the fan speed setting mode changes as follows. Normal ECO FAST Normal Displayed on the front control panel when selected CAMRY HV EE. Using the air conditioning system and defogger Air outlets Location of air outlets The air outlets and air volume change according to the selected airflow mode. Adjusting the position of and opening and closing the air out lets Front Rear Direct air flow to the left or right up or down. Turn the knob to open or close the vent. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the air conditioning system and defogger Using automatic mode Fan speed is adjusted automatically according to the temperature setting and the ambient conditions. Therefore the fan may stop for a while until warm or cool air is ready to flow immediately after is pressed. Fogging up of the windows The windows will easily fog up when the humidity in the vehicle is high. Turning on will dehumidify the air from the outlets and defog the windshield effectively. If you turn off the windows may fog up more easily. The windows may fog up if the recirculated air mode is used. Outside recirculated air mode When driving on dusty roads such as tunnels or in heavy traffic set the out side recirculated air mode button to the recirculated air mode. This is effec tive in preventing outside air from entering the vehicle interior. During cooling operation setting the recirculated air mode will also cool the vehicle interior effectively. Outside recirculated air mode may automatically switch depending on the temperature setting or the inside temperature. When the outside temperature is low The dehumidification function may not operate even when is pressed. CAMRY HV EE. Using the air conditioning system and defogger nanoe This vehicle incorporates a biocidal product. Ionised air generated by a device incorporated in the vehicle purifies the air in the cabin by suppressing bacteria. Active substance Free radicals generated in situ from ambient air or water This helps to fill the cabin with refreshing air by emitting slightly acidic nanoe ions coated with water particles through the driver s side vent. These particles are gentle to the skin and hair. When nanoe is operated in the following conditions system performance will be maximized. If the following conditions are not met nanoe may not operate at full capacity. cid The or air outlets are being used. cid The driver s side vent is open. When nanoe is generated a small amount of ozone is emitted and may be faintly smelled in some situations. However this is approximately the same as the amount that already exists in nature such as in forests and it has no affect on the human body. A slight noise may be heard during operation. This is not a malfunction. nanoe and the nanoe mark are trademarks of Panasonic Corporation. According to temperature and humidity conditions fan speed and direction of the air flow nanoe may not operate at full capacity. Operation of the air conditioning system in Eco drive mode In the Eco drive mode ECO is displayed on the air conditioning screen and the air conditioning system is controlled as follows to prioritize fuel effi ciency cid Engine speed and compressor operation controlled to restrict heating cooling capacity cid Fan speed restricted when automatic mode is selected To improve air conditioning performance perform the following operations cid Adjust the fan speed cid Turn off Eco drive mode Vehicles with a blower customization function Even when the drive mode is set to Eco drive mode the air conditioning eco mode can be turned off by pressing the. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the air conditioning system and defogger Ventilation and air conditioning odors To let fresh air in set the air conditioning system to the outside air mode. During use various odors from inside and outside the vehicle may enter into and accumulate in the air conditioning system. This may then cause odor to be emitted from the vents. To reduce potential odors from occurring cid It is recommended that the air conditioning system be set to outside air mode prior to turning the vehicle off. cid The start timing of the blower may be delayed for a short period of time immediately after the air conditioning system is started in automatic mode. Air conditioning filter P. Changing the settings of the rear control panel if equipped The following settings can be changed Reaction time from when a button on the rear control panel is touched Switch operation sound on off when a button on the rear control panel is touched Park the vehicle in a safe place and turn the power switch off. With the brake pedal released press the power switch once to change it to ACCESSORY mode. P. When the power switch is in ON mode the settings cannot be changed. While pressing touch the left side button for approximately seconds. After a buzzer sounds release the button. Select the desired customization item. To change the reaction time Touch the left side button. To enable disable the switch operation sound Touch the left side button. CAMRY HV EE. Using the air conditioning system and defogger According to the following table touch the appropriate button to change the desired setting and check that the button flashes the correct number of times. Button to be touched Function Setting Button display right side Longest Flashes times button Long Flashes times Reaction time Default setting Standard Flashes times Short Flashes times button Shortest Flashes times button On Flashes once Switch opera tion sound button Off Flashes twice To complete customization perform one of the following cid Press. cid Press the power switch. cid Wait until the rear control panel turns off automatically do not touch the panel for seconds or more. Customization Some functions can be customized. P. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the air conditioning system and defogger WARNING To prevent the windshield from fogging up Do not use during cool air operation in extremely humid weather. The difference between the temperature of the outside air and that of the windshield can cause the outer surface of the windshield to fog up block ing your vision. Do not place anything on the instrument panel which may cover the air outlets. Otherwise air flow may be obstructed preventing the windshield defoggers from defogging. To prevent burns Do not touch the rear view mirror surfaces when the outside rear view mirror defoggers are on. nanoe Do not disassemble or repair the system because it contains high voltage parts. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer if the system needs repair. NOTICE To prevent volt battery discharge Do not leave the air conditioning system on longer than necessary when the hybrid system is off. To prevent damage to nanoe Do not insert anything into the driver s side vent attach anything to it or use sprays around the driver s side vent. These things may cause the system not to work properly. CAMRY HV EE. Using the air conditioning system and defogger Seat heaters WARNING Care should be taken to prevent injury if anyone in the following categories comes in contact with the seats when the heater is on cid Babies small children the elderly the sick and the physically chal lenged cid Persons with sensitive skin cid Persons who are fatigued cid Persons who have taken alcohol or drugs that induce sleep sleeping drugs cold remedies etc. Observe the following precautions to prevent the minor burns or overheat ing cid Do not cover the seat with a blanket or cushion when using the seat heater. cid Do not use seat heater more than necessary. NOTICE Do not put heavy objects that have an uneven surface on the seat and do not stick sharp objects needles nails etc. into the seat. To prevent volt battery discharge do not use the functions when the hybrid system is off. Each time the switch is pressed the operation condition changes as follows. Hi segments lit Mid seg ments lit Lo segment lit Off The level indicator amber lights up during operation. The seat heaters can be used when the power switch is in ON mode. If equipped CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the interior lights Interior lights list Front interior personal lights P. Shift lever light Inside door handle lights Rear seat center armrest light P. Rear personal lights P. Door courtesy lights Front center console light Footwell lights CAMRY HV EE. Using the interior lights Interior lights The rear personal lights turn on off together with the front interior light. Turns the lights on off linked to door positions Turns the lights on off Personal lights Front Turns the lights on off Rear Turns the lights on off CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the interior lights Rear seat center armrest light Turns the light on off when the tail lights are on Illuminated entry system The lights automatically turn on off according to the power switch mode the presence of the electronic key whether the doors are locked unlocked and whether the doors are open closed. If the interior lights remain on when the power switch is turned off the lights will go off automatically after minutes. Some functions can be customized. P. CAMRY HV EE. Using the storage features List of storage features Auxiliary box if equipped Console box P. P. Auxiliary box open tray Glove box P. P. Bottle holders door pockets Coin holder P. P. Cup holders P. WARNING Do not leave glasses lighters or spray cans in the storage spaces as this may cause the following when cabin temperature becomes high cid Glasses may be deformed by heat or cracked if they come into contact with other stored items. cid Lighters or spray cans may explode. If they come into contact with other stored items the lighter may catch fire or the spray can may release gas causing a fire hazard. When driving or when the storage compartments are not in use keep the lids closed. In the event of sudden braking or sudden swerving an accident may occur due to an occupant being struck by an open lid or the items stored inside. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the storage features Glove box Unlock with the mechanical key Lock with the mechanical key Open pull lever The glove box light turns on when the tail lights are on. Console box Push the knob. Coin holder Pull the lever to open. CAMRY HV EE. Using the storage features Bottle holders Front Rear When storing a bottle close the cap. The bottle may not be stored depending on its size or shape. WARNING Do not place anything other than a bottle in the bottle holders. Other items may be thrown out of the holders in the event of an accident or sudden braking and cause injury. NOTICE Put the cap on before stowing a bottle. Do not place open bottles in the bot tle holders or glass or paper cups containing liquid. The contents may spill and glass cups may break. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the storage features Cup holders Front Rear Type A Type B Pull the armrest down. Pull the armrest down and lift the lid. Type C Pull the armrest down and press the button. CAMRY HV EE. Using the storage features The insert for the rear cup holders can be removed for cleaning. type B WARNING Do not place anything other than cups or aluminum cans in the cup hold ers. Other items may be thrown out of the holders in the event of an acci dent or sudden braking causing injury. To prevent burns cover hot drinks when placed in the cup holders. NOTICE Rear cup holders type C To prevent damage to the rear cup holder stow the cup holder before stowing the armrest. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the storage features Auxiliary boxes Type A if equipped Type B Push the lid. Opening Push the tray forward until it locks. Closing Push the tray forward to release the lock and the tray will auto matically close. When small items are placed on top of the tray type B The tray can be opened while small items are placed on it. WARNING Caution while driving type A Do not leave the auxiliary box open while driving. Items may fall out and cause death or serious injury in case of an accident or sudden stop. Items unsuitable for storing type A Do not store items heavier than. kg. lb Doing so may cause the auxiliary box to open and the items inside may fall out resulting in an accident. CAMRY HV EE. Using the storage features NOTICE When opening or closing the tray type B To prevent damaging small items when opening the tray while small items are placed on it make sure the items will not get caught. To prevent damaging the tray do not pull the tray to close it. Doing so may damage the tray. Open tray When using wireless charger if equipped P. WARNING Observe the following precautions when putting items in the open tray. Fail ure to do so may cause items to be thrown out of the tray in the event of sudden braking or steering. In these cases the items may interfere with pedal operation or cause driver distraction resulting in an accident. Do not store items in the tray that can easily shift or roll out. Do not stack items in the tray higher than the tray s edge. Do not put items in the tray that may protrude over the tray s edge. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Using the storage features Trunk features Grocery bag hooks NOTICE To prevent damage to the hooks do not apply too much load to the hooks. CAMRY HV EE. Other interior features Other interior features Sun visors To set the visor in the forward position flip it down. To set the visor in the side posi tion flip down unhook and swing it to the side. Vanity mirrors Slide the cover to open. The light turns on when the cover is opened. If the vanity lights remain on for minutes while the hybrid system is off the lights will turn off automatically. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Other interior features Power outlet Please use as a power supply for electronic goods that use less than VDC A power consumption of W. Open the lid. The power outlet can be used when The power switch is in ACCESSORY or ON mode. When stopping the hybrid system Disconnect electrical devices with charging functions such as mobile battery packs. If such devices are left connected the hybrid system may not stop normally. NOTICE To avoid damaging the power outlet close the power outlet lid when it is not in use. Foreign objects or liquids that enter the power outlet may cause a short circuit. To prevent volt battery discharge do not use the power outlet longer than necessary when the hybrid system is off. CAMRY HV EE. Other interior features USB charging ports The USB charging ports are used to supply. A of electricity at V to external devices power consumption of. W. The USB charging ports are for charging only. They are not designed for data transfer or other purposes. Depending on the external device it may not charge properly. Refer to the manual included with the device before using a USB charging port. Using the USB charging ports Open the lid. The USB charging ports can be used when The power switch is in ACCESSORY or ON mode. Situations in which the USB charging ports may not operate correctly If a device which consumes more than. A at V is connected power consumption of. W. If a device designed to communicate with a personal computer such as a USB memory device is connected If the connected external device is turned off depending on device If the temperature inside the vehicle is high such as after the vehicle has been parked in the sun About connected external devices Depending on the connected external device charging may occasionally be suspended and then start again. This is not a malfunction. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Other interior features NOTICE To prevent damage to the USB charging ports Do not insert foreign objects into the ports. Do not spill water or other liquids into the ports. When the USB charging ports are not in use close the lids. If a foreign object or liquid enters a port may cause a short circuit. Do not apply excessive force to or impact the USB charging ports. Do not disassemble or modify the USB charging ports. To prevent damage to external devices Do not leave external devices in the vehicle. The temperature inside the vehicle may become high resulting in damage to an external device. Do not push down on or apply unnecessary force to an external device or the cable of an external device while it is connected. To prevent volt battery discharge Do not use the USB charging ports for a long period of time with the hybrid system stopped. CAMRY HV EE. Other interior features Wireless charger if equipped A portable device such as a smartphone or mobile battery can be charged by just placing it on the charging area provided the device is compatible with the Qi wireless charging standard created by the Wireless Power Consortium. The wireless charger cannot be used with a portable device that is larger than the charging area. Additionally depending on the portable device the wireless charger may not operate properly. Refer to the operation manual of the portable device. The Qi symbol The Qi symbol is a trademark of the Wireless Power Consortium. Name for all parts Power supply switch Operation indicator light Charge area CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Other interior features Using the wireless charger Press the power supply switch of the wireless char ger. Pressing the switch again turns the wireless charger off. When turned on the operation indicator light green comes on. When the power switch is turned off the on off state of the wire less charger will be memorized. Place a portable device on the charging area with its charging surface facing down. While charging the operation indicator light orange will be illuminated. If charging does not begin move the portable device as close to the center of the charging area as possible. When charging is complete the operation indicator light green will illu minate. Recharging function cid If a certain amount of time has elapsed since charging com pleted and the portable device has not been moved the wire less charger will restart charging. cid If the portable device is moved within the charging area charging will stop temporarily then restart. CAMRY HV EE. Other interior features Operation indicator light status Operation indicator light State Off The Wireless charger is off Standby charging is possible Green illuminated Charging is complete A portable device has been placed on the charging area identifying the portable Orange illuminated device Charging in progress Depending on the portable device the operation indicator light may stay illuminated orange after charging has completed. If the operation indicator light blinks If an error is detected the operation indicator light will blink orange. Take the appropriate measures according to the table below. Operation indicator light Suspected causes Measure Contact any autho Blinks orange at a rized Toyota retailer or Vehicle to charger com one second interval Toyota authorized munication failure. continuously repairer or any reliable repairer. A foreign object exists between the portable Remove the foreign device and charging object. area. Blinks orange times repeatedly Move the portable Portable device is not device toward the cen positioned properly on ter of the charging the charging area. area. The temperature of the Stop charging immedi Blinks orange times wireless charger is ately and continue repeatedly excessively high. charging after a while. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Other interior features The wireless charger can be operated when The power switch is in ACCESSORY or ON mode. Portable devices that can be charged Portable devices compatible with the Qi wireless charging standard can be charged by the wireless charger. However compatibility with all devices which meet the Qi wireless charging standard is not guaranteed. The wireless charger is designed to supply low power electricity W or less to a cellular phone smartphone or other portable device. If a cover or accessory is attached to the portable device Do not charge a portable device if a cover or accessory which is not Qi com patible is attached. Depending on the type of cover and or accessory attached it may not be possible to charge the portable device. If the portable device is placed on the charging area and does not charge remove the cover and or accessories. If interference is heard in AM radio broadcasts while charging Turn off the wireless charger and check if the noise is reduced. If noise is reduced press and hold the power supply switch of the wireless charger for seconds. The frequency of the wireless charger is changed and noise may be reduced. When the frequency is changed the operation indicator light will blink orange times. Charging precautions If the electronic key cannot be detected in the cabin charging cannot be performed. When a door is opened and closed charging may be temporarily suspended. While charging the wireless charger and the portable device will become warm. This is not a malfunction. If a portable device becomes warm while charging and charging stops due to the protection function of the portable device wait until the portable device cools down and charge it again. Sound generated during operation When the power supply switch is turned on or while a portable device is being identified operation sounds may be heard. This is not a malfunction. Cleaning the wireless charger P. CAMRY HV EE. Other interior features WARNING Caution while driving When charging a portable device while driving for safety reasons the driver should not operate the portable device. Caution regarding interference with electronic devices People with implantable cardiac pacemakers cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemakers or implantable cardioverter defibrillators as well as any other electrical medical device should consult their physician about the usage of the wireless charger. Operations of the wireless charger may have an affect on medical devices. To prevent damage or burns Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in the possibility of fire equipment failure or damage or burns due to heat. Do not put any metallic objects between the charging area and the porta ble device while charging. Do not attach metallic objects such as aluminum stickers to the charging area. Do not cover the wireless charger with a cloth or other object while charging. Do not attempt to charge portable devices which are not compatible with the Qi wireless charging standard. Do not disassemble modify or remove the wireless charger. Do not apply force or impact to the wireless charger. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Other interior features NOTICE Conditions in which the wireless charger may not operate correctly In the following situations the wireless charger may not operate correctly When a portable device is fully charged When there is a foreign object between the charging area and portable device When a portable device becomes hot while charging When a portable device is placed on the wireless area with its charging surface facing up When a portable device is not centered on the charging area When the vehicle is near a TV tower electric power plant gas station radio station large display airport or other facility that generates strong radio waves or electrical noise When the portable device is in contact with or is covered by any of the fol lowing metallic objects cid Cards to which aluminum foil is attached cid Cigarette boxes that have aluminum foil inside cid Metallic wallets or bags cid Coins cid Metal hand warmers cid Media such as CDs and DVDs When wireless keys that emit radio waves other than those of your vehi cle are being used nearby. If in situations other than above the wireless charger does not operate prop erly or the operation indicator light is blinking the wireless charger may be malfunctioning. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. To prevent failure or damage to data Do not bring magnetic cards such as a credit card or magnetic recording media close to the wireless charger while charging. Otherwise data may be erased due to the influence of magnetism. Additionally do not bring precision instruments such as wrist watches close to the wireless charger as such objects may malfunction. Do not leave portable devices in the cabin. The temperature inside the cabin may become high when parked in the sun and cause damage to the device. To prevent volt battery discharge Do not use the wireless charger for a long period of time with the hybrid sys tem stopped. CAMRY HV EE. Other interior features Armrest Fold down the armrest for use. Type A Type B Type C NOTICE To prevent damage to the armrest do not apply too much load on the arm rest. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Other interior features Rear sunshade if equipped The rear sunshade can be raised and lowered using any of the fol lowing. Meter control switches Select on the multi information display using the meter control switches on the steering wheel. P. Select and then press. Each time is pressed the operating direction of the rear sun shade will change. From a rear seat Fold down the rear armrest. P. Press to turn the rear control panel on. Touch button. Each time button is touched the operating direction of the rear sunshade will change. CAMRY HV EE. Other interior features The rear sunshade can be used when the power switch is in ON mode. The rear sunshade can be operated for approximately minute even after the power switch is turned off. Reverse operation feature To ensure adequate rear visibility the rear sun shade automatically lowers when the shift lever is shifted to R. However the rear sunshade is raised again if any of the following occurs cid The button is pressed again. cid The shift lever is shifted into P. cid The shift lever is shifted out of R and the vehicle reaches a speed of km h mph. cid The power switch is turned off. The reverse operation feature may not work under some conditions. In such cases press the switch to extend retract the rear sunshade. The rear control panel will turn off if it is not touched for approximately seconds. Changing the settings of the rear control panel P. WARNING When the rear sunshade is being operated do not place fingers or other objects in the fastener section or in the opening. They may get caught causing injury. NOTICE To prevent volt battery discharge do not operate the rear sunshade when the hybrid system is off. Observe the following precautions to ensure normal operation of the rear sunshade. cid Do not place excessive load on the motor or other components of the rear sunshade. cid Do not place objects where they may hinder opening and closing opera tions. cid Do not attach items to the rear sunshade. cid Keep the opening clean and clear of obstructions. cid Do not operate the rear sunshade continuously for long periods of time. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Other interior features Rear door sunshades if equipped Pull the tab up and hook the sun shade on to the anchors. To lower the sunshade pull the tab up slightly to unhook the shade from the anchors and lower it slowly. WARNING When the rear door sunshades are being operated do not place fingers or other objects in the fastener section or in the opening. They may get caught causing injury. NOTICE To ensure normal operation of the rear door sunshades observe the follow ing precautions Do not place anything where it may hinder the opening closing of a sun shade. Do not place anything on the sunshades. Keep the opening clean and clear of obstructions. CAMRY HV EE. Other interior features Assist grips An assist grip installed on the ceil ing can be used to support your body while sitting on the seat. WARNING Do not use the assist grip when getting in or out of the vehicle or rising from your seat. NOTICE To prevent damage to the assist grip do not put a heavy load on the assist grip. Coat hooks Coat hooks are provided on the rear assist grips. WARNING Do not hang coat hangers or other hard or sharp objects on the hook. If the SRS curtain shield airbags deploy these items may become projectiles causing death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE Interior features. Other interior features CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Maintenance and care Cleaning and protecting the vehicle exterior Cleaning and protecting the vehicle interior. Maintenance Maintenance requirements. Do it yourself maintenance Do it yourself service precautions Hood Positioning a floor jack Engine compartment volt battery Tires Tire inflation pressure Wheels Air conditioning filter Cleaning the hybrid battery traction battery air intake vent and filter Electronic key battery Checking and replacing fuses Light bulbs CAMRY HV EE. Maintenance and care Cleaning and protecting the vehicle exterior Perform the following to protect the vehicle and maintain it in prime condition Working from top to bottom liberally apply water to the vehicle body wheel wells and underside of the vehicle to remove any dirt and dust. Wash the vehicle body using a sponge or soft cloth such as a chamois. For hard to remove marks use car wash soap and rinse thoroughly with water. Wipe away any water. Wax the vehicle when the waterproof coating deteriorates. If water does not bead on a clean surface apply wax when the vehicle body is cool. Automatic car washes Fold the mirrors before washing the vehicle. Start washing from the front of the vehicle. Make sure to extend the mirrors before driving. Brushes used in automatic car washes may scratch the vehicle surface and harm your vehicle s paint. High pressure car washes As water may enter the cabin do not bring the nozzle tip near the gaps around the doors or perimeter of the windows or spray these areas continu ously. When using a car wash If the door handle becomes wet while the electronic key is within the effective range the door may lock and unlock repeatedly. In that case follow the fol lowing correction procedures to wash the vehicle Place the key in a position m ft. or more separate from the vehicle while the vehicle is being washed. Take care to ensure that the key is not stolen. Set the electronic key to battery saving mode to disable the smart entry start system. P. CAMRY HV EE. Maintenance and care Aluminum wheels Remove any dirt immediately by using a neutral detergent. Wash detergent off with water immediately after use. To protect the paint from damage make sure to observe the following pre cautions. cid Do not use acidic alkaline or abrasive detergent cid Do not use hard brushes cid Do not use detergent on the wheels when they are hot such as after driv ing or parking in hot weather Bumpers Do not scrub with abrasive cleaners. Front side windows water repellent coating The following precautions can extend the effectiveness of the water repel lent coating. cid Remove any dirt etc. from the front side windows regularly. cid Do not allow dirt and dust to accumulate on the windows for a long period. Clean the windows with a soft damp cloth as soon as possible. cid Do not use wax or glass cleaners that contain abrasives when cleaning the windows. cid Do not use any metallic objects to remove condensation build up. When the water repellent performance has become insufficient the coating can be repaired. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Restoration work for rain clearing effect of the rain clearing mirror if equipped The rain clearing effect on the mirror surface will gradually recover after expo sure to sunlight P However if you want to restore the effect immediately conduct the following procedures Apply water to the mirror surface to wash the dirt away from it. Remove the dirt by using a clean soft and wet cloth. Clean the mirror surface with glass cleaner or detergent. When detergent is used rinse the mirror surface with a lot of water. Wipe water on the mirror surface by using a clean and soft cloth etc. Park your vehicle outdoors to expose the mirror surface to sunlight for about hours. The restoration time differs depending on the amount and type of dirt. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Maintenance and care WARNING When washing the vehicle Do not apply water to the inside of the engine compartment. Doing so may cause the electrical components etc. to catch fire. When cleaning the windshield Set the wiper switch to off. If the wiper switch is in AUTO the wip ers may operate unexpectedly in the fol Off lowing situations and may result in hands being caught or other serious inju ries and cause damage to the wiper blades. When the upper part of the windshield where the raindrop sensor is located is touched by hand When a wet rag or similar is held close to the raindrop sensor If something bumps against the windshield If you directly touch the raindrop sensor body or if something bumps into the raindrop sensor Precautions regarding the exhaust pipe Exhaust gasses cause the exhaust pipe to become quite hot. When washing the vehicle be careful not to touch the pipe until it has cooled sufficiently as touching a hot exhaust pipe can cause burns. Precaution regarding the rear bumper with Blind Spot Monitor if equipped If the paint of the rear bumper is chipped or scratched the system may mal function. If this occurs avoid using the system and consult any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Maintenance and care NOTICE To prevent paint deterioration and corrosion on the body and compo nents aluminum wheels etc. Wash the vehicle immediately in the following cases cid After driving near the sea coast cid After driving on salted roads cid If coal tar or tree sap is present on the paint surface cid If dead insects insect droppings or bird droppings are present on the paint surface cid After driving in an area contaminated with soot oily smoke mine dust iron powder or chemical substances cid If the vehicle becomes heavily soiled with dust or mud cid If liquids such as benzene and gasoline are spilled on the paint surface If the paint is chipped or scratched have it repaired immediately. To prevent the wheels from corroding remove any dirt and store in a place with low humidity when storing the wheels. Cleaning the exterior lights Wash carefully. Do not use organic substances or scrub with a hard brush. This may damage the surfaces of the lights. Do not apply wax to the surfaces of the lights. Wax may cause damage to the lenses. When using an automatic car wash Set the wiper switch to the off position. If the wiper switch is in AUTO the wipers may operate and the wiper blades may be damaged. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Maintenance and care NOTICE When using a high pressure car wash Do not bring the nozzle tip close to boots rubber or resin manufactured cover connectors or the following parts. The parts may be damaged if they come into contact with high pressure water. cid Traction related parts cid Steering parts cid Suspension parts cid Brake parts Keep the cleaning nozzle at least cm. in. away from the vehicle body. Otherwise resin section such as moldings and bumpers may be deformed and damaged. Also do not continuously hold the nozzle in the same place. Do not spray the lower part of the windshield continuously. If water enters the air conditioning system intake located near the lower part of the windshield the air conditioning system may not operate cor rectly. Do not wash the underside of the vehicle using a high pressure car washer. CAMRY HV EE. Maintenance and care Cleaning and protecting the vehicle interior The following procedures will help protect your vehicle s interior and keep it in top condition Protecting the vehicle interior Remove dirt and dust using a vacuum cleaner. Wipe dirty surfaces with a cloth dampened with lukewarm water. If dirt cannot be removed wipe it off with a soft cloth dampened with neutral detergent diluted to approximately. Wring out any excess water from the cloth and thoroughly wipe off remaining traces of detergent and water. Cleaning the areas with satin finish metal accents Remove dirt using a soft cloth or synthetic chamois dampened in a baking soda sodium bicarbonate solution. Use a solution of approximately baking soda dissolved in water. Wipe the surface with a dry soft cloth to remove any remaining moisture. Cleaning the leather areas Remove dirt and dust using a vacuum cleaner. Wipe off any excess dirt and dust with a soft cloth dampened with diluted detergent. Use a diluted water solution of approximately neutral wool detergent. Wring out any excess water from the cloth and thoroughly wipe off all remaining traces of detergent. Wipe the surface with a dry soft cloth to remove any remaining moisture. Allow the leather to dry in a shaded and ventilated area. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Maintenance and care Cleaning the synthetic leather areas Remove dirt and dust using a vacuum cleaner. Wipe it off with a soft cloth dampened with neutral detergent diluted to approximately. Wring out any excess water from the cloth and thoroughly wipe off remaining traces of detergent and water. Caring for leather areas Toyota recommends cleaning the interior of the vehicle at least twice a year to maintain the quality of the vehicle s interior. Shampooing the carpets There are several commercial foaming type cleaners available. Use a sponge or brush to apply the foam. Rub in overlapping circles. Do not use water. Wipe dirty surfaces and let them dry. Excellent results are obtained by keep ing the carpet as dry as possible. Seat belts Clean with mild soap and lukewarm water using a cloth or sponge. Also check the belts periodically for excessive wear fraying or cuts. WARNING Water in the vehicle Do not splash or spill liquid in the vehicle such as on the floor in the hybrid battery traction battery air vent and in the trunk. Doing so may cause the hybrid battery electrical components etc. to mal function or catch fire. Do not get any of the SRS components or wiring in the vehicle interior wet. P. An electrical malfunction may cause the airbags to deploy or not function properly resulting in death or serious injury. Vehicles with wireless charger Do not let the wireless charger P. get wet. Failure to do so may cause the charger to become hot and cause burns or could cause electric shock resulting in death or serious injury. Cleaning the interior especially instrument panel Do not use polish wax or polish cleaner. The instrument panel may reflect off the windshield obstructing the driver s view and leading to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE. Maintenance and care NOTICE Cleaning detergents Do not use the following types of detergent as they may discolor the vehi cle interior or cause streaks or damage to painted surfaces cid Areas other than the seats and steering wheel Organic substances such as benzene or gasoline alkaline or acidic solutions dye and bleach cid Seats Alkaline or acidic solutions such as thinner benzene and alco hol cid Steering wheel Organic substances such as thinner and cleaner that contains alcohol Do not use polish wax or polish cleaner. The instrument panel s or other interior part s painted surface may be damaged. Preventing damage to leather surfaces Observe the following precautions to avoid damage to and deterioration of leather surfaces Remove any dust or dirt from leather surfaces immediately. Do not expose the vehicle to direct sunlight for extended periods of time. Park the vehicle in the shade especially during summer. Do not place items made of vinyl plastic or containing wax on the uphol stery as they may stick to the leather surface if the vehicle interior heats up significantly. Water on the floor Do not wash the vehicle floor with water. Vehicle systems such as the audio system may be damaged if water comes into contact with electrical components such as the audio system above or under the floor of the vehicle. Water may also cause the body to rust. When cleaning the inside of the windshield Do not allow glass cleaner to contact the lens. Also do not touch the lens. P. Cleaning the inside of the rear window Do not use glass cleaner to clean the rear window as this may cause damage to the rear window defogger heater wires or antenna. Use a cloth dampened with lukewarm water to gently wipe the window clean. Wipe the window in strokes running parallel to the heater wires or antenna. Be careful not to scratch or damage the heater wires or antenna. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Maintenance Maintenance requirements To ensure safe and economical driving day to day care and reg ular maintenance are essential. Toyota recommends the follow ing maintenance Scheduled maintenance Scheduled maintenance should be performed at specified intervals according to the maintenance schedule. For full details of your maintenance schedule read the Toyota Service Booklet or Toyota Warranty Booklet. Where to go for maintenance service? In order to maintain your vehicle in the best possible condition Toyota rec ommends that maintenance service operations as well as other inspec tions and repairs be carried out by authorized Toyota retailers or Toyota authorized repairers or any reliable repairers. For repairs and services covered by your warranty please visit an authorized Toyota retailer or repairer who will use genuine Toyota parts in repairing any difficulties you may encounter. There can also be advantages in utilizing authorized Toyota retailers or repairers for non warranty repairs and services as members of the Toyota network will be able to expertly assist you with any difficulties you may encounter. Your Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer will perform all of the scheduled maintenance on your vehicle reliably and economically due to their experience with Toyota vehicles. CAMRY HV EE. Maintenance Do it yourself maintenance What about do it yourself maintenance? Many of the maintenance items are easy to do yourself if you have a little mechanical ability and a few basic automotive tools. Note however that some maintenance tasks require special tools and skills. These are best performed by qualified technicians. Even if you re an expe rienced do it yourself mechanic we recommend that repairs and mainte nance be conducted by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Any authorized Toyota retailer or repairer will keep a record of maintenance which could be useful should you ever require Warranty Service. Should you choose to select a qualified and equipped professional other than an authorized Toyota repairer to service or maintain your vehicle we recommend that you request that a record of maintenance be kept. Does your vehicle need repairs? Be on the alert for changes in performance and sounds and visual tip offs that indicate service is needed. Some important clues are Engine missing stumbling or pinging Appreciable loss of power Strange engine noises A fluid leak under the vehicle However water dripping from the air condi tioning system after use is normal. Change in exhaust sound This may indicate a dangerous carbon monoxide leak. Drive with the windows open and have the exhaust system checked immediately. Flat looking tires excessive tire squeal when cornering uneven tire wear Vehicle pulls to one side when driven straight on a level road Strange noises related to suspension movement Loss of brake effectiveness spongy feeling brake pedal pedal almost touches the floor vehicle pulls to one side when braking Engine coolant temperature continually higher than normal If you notice any of these clues take your vehicle to any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer as soon as pos sible. Your vehicle may need adjustment or repair. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Maintenance WARNING If your vehicle is not properly maintained Improper maintenance could result in serious damage to the vehicle and possible death or serious injury. Important health and safety information volt battery posts terminals and related accessories contain lead and lead compounds which are known to cause brain damage. Wash your hands after handling. P. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Do it yourself service precautions If you perform maintenance by yourself be sure to follow the correct procedure as given in these sections. Items Parts and tools volt battery cid Grease condition cid Conventional wrench for terminal clamp bolts P. cid Toyota Super Long Life Coolant or a similar high quality ethylene glycol based non silicate non Engine power amine non nitrite and non borate coolant with long control unit cool life hybrid organic acid technology ant level Toyota Super Long Life Coolant is pre mixed with P. coolant and deionized water. cid Funnel used only for adding coolant cid Toyota Genuine Motor Oil or equivalent Engine oil level cid Rag or paper towel P. cid Funnel used only for adding engine oil Fuses P. cid Fuse with same amperage rating as original Hybrid battery traction battery cid Vacuum cleaner etc. air intake vent cid Phillips screwdriver P. cid Bulb with same number and wattage rating as origi Light bulbs nal P. cid Flathead screwdriver cid Wrench Radiator con denser P. Tire inflation pres cid Tire pressure gauge sure P. cid Compressed air source cid Water or washer fluid containing antifreeze for win Washer fluid ter use P. cid Funnel used only for adding water or washer fluid CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance WARNING The engine compartment contains many mechanisms and fluids that may move suddenly become hot or become electrically energized. To avoid death or serious injury observe the following precautions. When working on the engine compartment Make sure that the READY indicator is off. Keep hands clothing and tools away from the moving fan and engine drive belt. Be careful not to touch the engine power control unit radiator exhaust manifold etc. right after driving as they may be hot. Oil and other fluids may also be hot. Do not leave anything that may burn easily such as paper and rags in the engine compartment. Do not smoke cause sparks or expose an open flame to fuel. Fuel fumes are flammable. Take care because brake fluid can harm your hands or eyes and damage painted surfaces. If fluid gets on your hands or in your eyes flush the affected area with clean water immediately. If you still experience discomfort consult a doctor. When working near the electric cooling fan or radiator grille Be sure the power switch is off. With the power switch in ON mode the electric cooling fan may automatically start to run if the air conditioning is on and or the coolant temperature is high. P. Safety glasses Wear safety glasses to prevent flying or falling material fluid spray etc. from getting in your eyes. NOTICE If you remove the air cleaner filter Driving with the air cleaner filter removed may cause excessive engine wear due to dirt in the air. If the fluid level is low or high It is normal for the brake fluid level to go down slightly as the brake pads wear or when the fluid level in the accumulator is high. If the reservoir needs frequent refilling it may indicate a serious problem. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Hood Release the lock from the inside of the vehicle to open the hood. Pull the hood lock release lever. The hood will pop up slightly. Pull up the auxiliary catch lever and lift the hood. Open hood warning buzzer If the vehicle reaches a speed of km h mph the master warning light flashes and a buzzer sounds to indicate that the hood is not fully closed. WARNING Pre driving check Check that the hood is fully closed and locked. If the hood is not locked properly it may open while the vehicle is in motion and cause an accident which may result in death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Positioning a floor jack When using a floor jack follow the instructions in the manual provided with the jack and perform the operation safely. When raising your vehicle with a floor jack position the jack cor rectly. Improper placement may damage your vehicle or cause injury. Front Rear CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Engine compartment Fuse boxes if equipped Electric cooling fan P. Condenser P. Engine oil filler cap Power control unit coolant P. reservoir P. Engine oil level dipstick Engine coolant reservoir P. P. Radiator P. Washer fluid tank P. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Engine oil With the engine at operating temperature and turned off check the oil level on the dipstick. Checking the engine oil Park the vehicle on level ground. After warming up the engine and turning off the hybrid system wait more than minutes for the oil to drain back into the bottom of the engine. Holding a rag under the end pull the dipstick out. Wipe the dipstick clean. Reinsert the dipstick fully. Holding a rag under the end pull the dipstick out and check the oil level. Low Normal Excessive The shape of the dipstick may differ depending on the type of vehicle or engine. Wipe the dipstick and reinsert it fully. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Adding engine oil If the oil level is below or near the low level mark add engine oil of the same type as that already in the engine. Make sure to check the oil type and prepare the items needed before adding oil. Engine oil selection P. Oil quantity. L. qt Imp. qt. Low Full Items Clean funnel Remove the oil filler cap by turning it counterclockwise. Add engine oil slowly checking the dipstick. Install the oil filler cap by turning it clockwise. Engine oil consumption A certain amount of engine oil will be consumed while driving. In the following situations oil consumption may increase and engine oil may need to be refilled in between oil maintenance intervals. When the engine is new for example directly after purchasing the vehicle or after replacing the engine If low quality oil or oil of an inappropriate viscosity is used When driving at high engine speeds or with a heavy load or when driving while accelerating or decelerating frequently When leaving the engine idling for a long time or when driving frequently through heavy traffic CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance WARNING Used engine oil Used engine oil contains potentially harmful contaminants which may cause skin disorders such as inflammation and skin cancer so care should be taken to avoid prolonged and repeated contact. To remove used engine oil from your skin wash thoroughly with soap and water. Dispose of used oil and filters only in a safe and acceptable manner. Do not dispose of used oil and filters in household trash in sewers or onto the ground. Call any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer service station or auto parts store for information con cerning recycling or disposal. Do not leave used engine oil within the reach of children. NOTICE To prevent serious engine damage Check the oil level on a regular basis. When replacing the engine oil Be careful not to spill engine oil on the vehicle components. Avoid overfilling or the engine could be damaged. Check the oil level on the dipstick every time you refill the vehicle. Be sure the engine oil filler cap is properly tightened. If oil is spilled on the engine cover To prevent the engine cover from being damaged remove any engine oil from the engine cover as soon as possible using a neutral detergent. Do not use an organic solvent such as brake cleaner. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Coolant Engine coolant reservoir The coolant level is satisfactory if it is between the F and L lines on the reservoir when the hybrid system is cold. Reservoir cap F line L line If the level is on or below the L line add coolant up to the F line. P. Power control unit coolant reservoir The coolant level is satisfactory if it is between the FULL and LOW lines on the reservoir when the hybrid system is cold. Reservoir cap FULL line LOW line If the level is on or below the LOW line add coolant up to the FULL line. P. Coolant selection Only use Toyota Super Long Life Coolant or a similar high quality ethylene glycol based non silicate non amine non nitrite and non borate coolant with long life hybrid organic acid technology. Toyota Super Long Life Coolant is a mixture of coolant and deion ized water. Minimum temperature C F For more details about engine coolant contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. If the coolant level drops within a short time of replenishing Visually check the radiators hoses engine power control unit coolant reser voir caps drain cock and water pump. If you cannot find a leak have any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota autho rized repairer or any reliable repairer test the cap and check for leaks in the cooling system. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance WARNING When the hybrid system is hot Do not remove the engine power control unit coolant reservoir caps or the radiator cap. The cooling system may be under pressure and may spray hot coolant if the cap is removed causing serious injuries such as burns. NOTICE When adding coolant Coolant is neither plain water nor straight antifreeze. The correct mixture of water and antifreeze must be used to provide proper lubrication corrosion protection and cooling. Be sure to read the antifreeze or coolant label. If you spill coolant Be sure to wash it off with water to prevent it from damaging parts or paint. Radiator and condenser Check the radiator and condenser and clear away any foreign objects. If either of the above parts is extremely dirty or you are not sure of their condition have your vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. WARNING When the hybrid system is hot Do not touch the radiator or condenser as they may be hot and cause seri ous injuries such as burns. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Washer fluid Add washer fluid in the following situations A washer does not work. Windshield Washer Fluid Low is displayed on the multi infor mation display. WARNING When adding washer fluid Do not add washer fluid when the hybrid system is hot or operating as washer fluid contains alcohol and may catch fire if spilled on the engine etc. NOTICE Do not use any fluid other than washer fluid Do not use soapy water or engine antifreeze instead of washer fluid. Doing so may cause streaking on the vehicle s painted surfaces as well as damaging the pump leading to problems of the washer fluid not spraying. Diluting washer fluid Dilute washer fluid with water as necessary. Refer to the freezing temperatures listed on the label of the washer fluid bot tle. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance volt battery Location The volt battery is located on the right hand side of the trunk. Removing the volt battery cover Lift up the volt battery cover while pulling the claws to remove. Exterior Make sure that the volt battery terminals are not corroded and that there are no loose connections cracks or loose clamps. Terminals Hold down clamp CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Checking volt battery condition Check the volt battery condition by indicator color. Blue Good condition Red Charging is necessary. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Clear Battery fluid level is low. Have the volt battery checked by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Before recharging When recharging the volt battery produces hydrogen gas which is flam mable and explosive. Therefore observe the following precautions before recharging If recharging with the volt battery installed on the vehicle be sure to dis connect the ground cable. Make sure the power switch on the charger is off when connecting and dis connecting the charger cables to the volt battery. After recharging reconnecting the volt battery Unlocking the doors using the smart entry start system may not be possi ble immediately after reconnecting the volt battery. If this happens use the wireless remote control or the mechanical key to lock unlock the doors. Start the hybrid system with the power switch in ACCESSORY mode. The hybrid system may not start with the power switch turned off. However the hybrid system will operate normally from the second attempt. The power switch mode is recorded by the vehicle. If the volt battery is reconnected the vehicle will return the power switch mode to the status it was in before the volt battery was disconnected. Make sure to turn off the power before disconnecting the volt battery. Take extra care when connecting the volt battery if the power switch mode prior to discharge is unknown. If the system will not start even after multiple attempts contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance WARNING Chemicals in the volt battery The volt battery contains poisonous and corrosive sulfuric acid and may produce hydrogen gas which is flammable and explosive. To reduce the risk of death or serious injury take the following precautions while working on or near the volt battery Do not cause sparks by touching the volt battery terminals with tools. Do not smoke or light a match near the volt battery. Avoid contact with eyes skin and clothes. Never inhale or swallow electrolyte. Wear protective safety glasses when working near the volt battery. Keep children away from the volt battery. Where to safely charge the volt battery Always charge the volt battery in an open area. Do not charge the volt battery in a garage or closed room where there is insufficient ventila tion. Emergency measures regarding electrolyte If electrolyte gets in your eyes Flush your eyes with clean water for at least minutes and get immedi ate medical attention. If possible continue to apply water with a sponge or cloth while traveling to the nearest medical facility. If electrolyte gets on your skin Wash the affected area thoroughly. If you feel pain or burning get medical attention immediately. If electrolyte gets on your clothes It can soak through clothing on to your skin. Immediately take off the cloth ing and follow the procedure above if necessary. If you accidentally swallow electrolyte Drink a large quantity of water or milk. Get emergency medical attention immediately. When disconnecting the volt battery Do not disconnect the negative terminal on the body side. The discon nected negative terminal may touch the positive terminal which may cause a short and result in death or serious injury. When replacing the volt battery Use a volt battery designed for this vehicle. Failure to do so may cause gas hydrogen to enter the passenger compartment causing a fire or explosion. For replacement of the volt battery contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance NOTICE When recharging the volt battery Never recharge the volt battery while the hybrid system is operating. Also be sure all accessories are turned off. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Tires Replace or rotate tires in accordance with maintenance sched ules and treadwear. Checking tires Check if the treadwear indicators are showing on the tires. Also check the tires for uneven wear such as excessive wear on one side of the tread. Check the spare tire condition and pressure if not rotated. New tread Worn tread Treadwear indicator The location of treadwear indicators is shown by a TWI or mark etc. molded into the sidewall of each tire. Replace the tires if the treadwear indicators are showing on a tire. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Tire rotation Vehicles with a compact spare Vehicles with a full size spare tire tire Front Front Rotate the tires in the order shown. To equalize tire wear and help extend tire life Toyota recommends that tire rotation is carried out approximately every km miles. Do not fail to initialize the tire pressure warning system after tire rotation. Tire pressure warning system Your vehicle is equipped with a tire pressure warning system that uses tire pressure warning valve and transmitters to detect low tire inflation pressure before serious problems arise. If the tire pressure drops below a predetermined level the driver is warned by a warning light. P. Installing tire pressure warning valve and transmitters When replacing the tires or wheels the tire pressure warning valve and transmitters must be installed to the wheels which will be installed to the vehicle. When new tire pressure warning valve and transmitters are installed new ID codes must be registered in the tire pressure warning computer and the tire pressure warning system must be initialized. P. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Initializing the tire pressure warning system The tire pressure warning system must be initialized in the fol lowing circumstances When the tire inflation pressure is changed such as when chang ing traveling speed or load weight. When the tire inflation pressure is changed such as when the tire size is changed. When rotating the tires. After performing the transmitter ID code registration procedure. P. When the tire pressure warning system is initialized the current tire inflation pressure is set as the benchmark pressure. How to initialize the tire pressure warning system Park the vehicle in a safe place and stop the hybrid system for minutes or more. The initialization procedure cannot be started while the vehicle is mov ing. Adjust the tire inflation pressure to the specified cold tire inflation pressure level. P. Make sure to adjust the tire pressure to the specified cold tire inflation pressure level. The tire pressure warning system will operate based on this pressure level. Start the hybrid system. P. Select on the multi information display using the meter con trol switches on the steering wheel. P Select and then press and hold. Select TPWS and then press. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Select Set Pressure then press and hold until the tire pressure warning light blinks times. Then a message will be dis played on the multi information display. Registering ID codes Every tire pressure warning valve and transmitter has a unique ID code. In addition to the set of tire pressure warning system sensor ID codes initially registered to the vehicle a second set of ID codes can be registered. A second set of tire pressure warning system sensor ID codes can be registered at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. When sets of ID codes have been registered either ID code set can be selected. Changing the available set of ID codes When sets of ID codes are registered the corresponding ID code set for the installed wheels can be selected on of the multi information display. It is not necessary to reregister the ID codes each time the wheels are changed. For information regarding changing the registered ID codes for an ID code set contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota autho rized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance When to replace your vehicle s tires Tires should be replaced if The treadwear indicators are showing on a tire. You have tire damage such as cuts splits cracks deep enough to expose the fabric and bulges indicating internal damage A tire goes flat repeatedly or cannot be properly repaired due to the size or location of a cut or other damage If you are not sure consult with any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Replacing tires and wheels If the ID codes of the tire pressure warning valve and transmitters are not reg istered the tire pressure warning system will not work properly. In this case after driving for about minutes the tire pressure warning light will blink for approximately minute and then illuminate to indicate a system malfunction. Tire life Any tire over years old must be checked by a qualified technician even if it has seldom or never been used or damage is not obvious. Routine tire inflation pressure checks The tire pressure warning system does not replace routine tire inflation pres sure checks. Make sure to check tire inflation pressure as part of your routine of daily vehicle checks. Low profile tires vehicles with inch wheels Generally low profile tires will wear more rapidly and tire grip performance will be reduced on snowy and or icy roads when compared to standard tires. Be sure to use snow tires on snowy and or icy roads and drive carefully at a speed appropriate for road and weather conditions. If the tread on snow tires wears down below mm. in. The effectiveness of the tires as snow tires is lost. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Situations in which the tire pressure warning system may not operate properly In the following situations the tire pressure warning system may not operate properly. cid If non genuine Toyota wheels are used. cid If a tire has been replaced with a tire that is not an OE Original Equip ment tire. cid If a tire has been replaced with a tire that is not of the specified size. cid If tire chains etc. are installed. cid If a window tint that affects radio wave signals is installed. cid If there is a lot of snow or ice on the vehicle particularly around the wheels or wheel housings. cid If the tire inflation pressure is much higher than the specified level. cid If wheels not equipped with tire pressure warning valve and transmitter are used. cid If the ID codes of the tire pressure warning valve and transmitters are not registered in the tire pressure warning computer. cid If the spare tire is in a location subject to poor radio wave signal recep tion. cid If a large metallic object which can interfere with signal reception is put in the trunk. Vehicles with a full size spare tire only Performance may be affected in the following situations. cid When driving near a TV tower electric power plant gas station radio sta tion large display airport or other facility that generates strong radio waves or electrical noise cid When carrying a portable radio cellular phone cordless phone or other wireless communication device When the vehicle is stopped the time taken for the warning to start or turn off may be longer. When the inflation pressure of a tire drops rapidly for example when a tire has burst the warning may not operate. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Initialization procedure Make sure to perform the initialization procedure after adjusting the tire infla tion pressure. Also make sure the tires are cold before performing the initialization proce dure or adjusting the tire inflation pressure. If the power switch is turned off during initialization it is not necessary to restart the initialization procedure from the beginning as it will begin auto matically when the power switch is turned back to ON mode. If initialization has accidentally been started when it is not necessary adjust the tire inflation pressure to the specified level when the tires are cold and then perform the initialization procedure again. Warning performance of the tire pressure warning system The warning of the tire pressure warning system will change in accordance with the conditions under which it was initialized. For this reason the system may give a warning even if the tire pressure does not reach a low enough level or if the pressure is higher than the pressure that was adjusted to when the system was initialized. If the tire pressure warning system is not initialized properly Initialization can be completed in a few minutes. However in the following cases the settings have not been recorded and the system will not operate properly. If repeated attempts to record tire inflation pressure settings are unsuccessful have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. If initialization is attempted and the tire pressure warning light does not blink times. If when the vehicle has been driven for about minutes after performing initialization the tire pressure warning light blinks for approximately min ute and then illuminates. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Tire pressure warning system certification CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance WARNING When inspecting or replacing tires Observe the following precautions to prevent accidents. Failure to do so may cause damage to parts of the drive train as well as dangerous handling characteristics which may lead to an accident resulting in death or serious injury. Do not mix tires of different makes models or tread patterns. Also do not mix tires of remarkably different treadwear. Do not use tire sizes other than those recommended by Toyota. Do not mix differently constructed tires radial bias belted or bias ply tires. Do not mix summer all season and snow tires. Do not use tires that have been used on another vehicle. Do not use tires if you do not know how they were used previously. When initializing the tire pressure warning system Do not initialize the tire pressure warning system without first adjusting the tire inflation pressure to the specified level. Otherwise the tire pressure warning light may not come on even if the tire inflation pressure is low or it may come on when the tire inflation pressure is actually normal. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance NOTICE Repairing or replacing tires wheels tire pressure warning valve and transmitters and tire valve caps When removing or fitting the wheels tires or the tire pressure warning valve and transmitters contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer as the tire pressure warning valve and transmitters may be damaged if not handled correctly. Make sure to install the tire valve caps. If the tire valve caps are not installed water may enter the valves of the tire pressure warning valve and transmitters and the valves may become stuck. When replacing tire valve caps do not replace them with metal caps or any tire valve caps other than specified as they may become stuck. To avoid damage to the tire pressure warning valve and transmitters When a tire is repaired with liquid sealants the tire pressure warning valve and transmitter may not operate properly. If a liquid sealant is used contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer or other qualified service shop as soon as possible. Make sure to replace the tire pressure warning valve and transmitter when replacing the tire. P. Driving on rough roads Take particular care when driving on roads with loose surfaces or potholes. These conditions may cause losses in tire inflation pressure reducing the cushioning ability of the tires. In addition driving on rough roads may cause damage to the tires themselves as well as the vehicle s wheels and body. Low profile tires vehicles with inch wheels Low profile tires may cause greater damage than usual to the tire wheel when sustaining impact from the road surface. Therefore pay attention to the following Be sure to use proper tire inflation pressure. If tires are under inflated they may be damaged more severely. Avoid potholes uneven pavement curbs and other road hazards. Failure to do so may lead to severe tire and wheel damage. If tire inflation pressure of each tire becomes low while driving Do not continue driving or your tires and or wheels may be ruined. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Tire inflation pressure Make sure to maintain proper tire inflation pressure. Tire infla tion pressure should be checked at least once per month. How ever Toyota recommends that tire inflation pressure be checked once every two weeks. P. Effects of incorrect tire inflation pressure Driving with incorrect tire inflation pressure may result in the following Reduced fuel economy Reduced driving comfort and poor handling Reduced tire life due to wear Reduced safety Damage to the drivetrain If a tire needs frequent inflating have it checked by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Instructions for checking tire inflation pressure When checking tire inflation pressure observe the following Check only when the tires are cold. If your vehicle has been parked for at least hours or has not been driven for more than. km or mile you will get an accurate cold tire inflation pressure reading. Always use a tire pressure gauge. It is difficult to judge if a tire is properly inflated based only on its appear ance. It is normal for the tire inflation pressure to be higher after driving as heat is generated in the tire. Do not reduce tire inflation pressure after driving. Passengers and luggage weight should be placed so that the vehicle is bal anced. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance WARNING Proper inflation is critical to save tire performance Keep your tires properly inflated. If the tires are not properly inflated the following conditions may occur which could lead to an accident resulting in death or serious injury Excessive wear Uneven wear Poor handling Possibility of blowouts resulting from overheated tires Air leaking from between tire and wheel Wheel deformation and or tire damage Greater possibility of tire damage while driving due to road hazards expansion joints sharp edges on the road etc. NOTICE When inspecting and adjusting tire inflation pressure Be sure to put the tire valve caps back on. If a valve cap is not installed dirt or moisture may get into the valve and cause an air leak resulting in decreased tire inflation pressure. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Wheels If a wheel is bent cracked or heavily corroded it should be replaced. Otherwise the tire may separate from the wheel or cause a loss of handling control. Wheel selection When replacing wheels care should be taken to ensure that they are equivalent to those removed in load capacity diameter rim width and inset. Replacement wheels are available at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Conventionally referred to as offset. Toyota does not recommend using the following Wheels of different sizes or types Used wheels Bent wheels that have been straightened Aluminum wheel precautions Use only Toyota wheel nuts and wrenches designed for use with your aluminum wheels. When rotating repairing or changing your tires check that the wheel nuts are still tight after driving km miles. Be careful not to damage the aluminum wheels when using tire chains. Use only Toyota genuine balance weights or equivalent and a plas tic or rubber hammer when balancing your wheels. When replacing wheels The wheels of your vehicle are equipped with tire pressure warning valve and transmitters that allow the tire pressure warning system to provide advance warning in the event of a loss in tire inflation pressure. Whenever wheels are replaced tire pressure warning valve and transmitters must be installed. P. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance WARNING When replacing wheels Do not use wheels that are a different size from those recommended in the Owner s Manual as this may result in a loss of handling control. Never use an inner tube in a leaking wheel which is designed for a tube less tire. Doing so may result in an accident causing death or serious injury. When installing the wheel nuts Be sure to install the wheel nuts with the tapered ends facing inward. Installing the nuts with the tapered ends facing outward can cause the wheel to break and eventually cause the wheel to come Tapered off while driving which could lead to an portion accident resulting in death or serious injury. Never use oil or grease on the wheel bolts or wheel nuts. Oil and grease may cause the wheel nuts to be excessively tightened leading to bolt or disc wheel damage. In addition the oil or grease can cause the wheel nuts to loosen and the wheel may fall off causing an acci dent and resulting in death or serious injury. Remove any oil or grease from the wheel bolts or wheel nuts. NOTICE Replacing tire pressure warning valve and transmitters Because tire repair or replacement may affect the tire pressure warning valve and transmitters make sure to have tires serviced by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer or other qualified service shop. In addition make sure to purchase your tire pressure warning valve and transmitters at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Ensure that only genuine Toyota wheels are used on your vehicle. Tire pressure warning valve and transmitters may not work properly with non genuine wheels. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Air conditioning filter The air conditioning filter must be changed regularly to maintain air conditioning efficiency. Removal method Turn the power switch off. Open the glove box. Slide off the damper. Push in each side of the glove box to disconnect the upper claws. Then pull out the glove box and disconnect the lower claws. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Remove the filter cover. Unlock the filter cover. Move the filter cover in the direction of the arrow and then pull it out of the claws. Left hand drive vehicles Right hand drive vehicles Remove the filter case. There may be foreign objects on top of the air conditioning filter. Remove the air conditioning fil ter from the filter case and replace it with a new one. The UP marks shown on the fil ter and the filter case should be pointing up. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Checking interval Inspect and replace the air conditioning filter according to the maintenance schedule. In dusty areas or areas with heavy traffic flow early replacement may be required. For scheduled maintenance information please refer to the Toyota Service Booklet or Toyota Warranty Booklet. If air flow from the vents decreases dramatically The filter may be clogged. Check the filter and replace if necessary. Air conditioning filter with deodorizing function When fragrances are placed in your vehicle the deodorizing effect may become significantly weakened in a short period. When an air conditioning odor comes out continuously replace the air condi tioning filter. NOTICE When using the air conditioning system Make sure that a filter is always installed. Using the air conditioning system without a filter may cause damage to the system. To prevent damage to the filter cover When moving the filter cover in the direc tion of arrow to release the fitting pay attention not to apply excessive force to the claws. Otherwise the claws may be damaged. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Cleaning the hybrid battery traction bat tery air intake vent and filter To prevent the fuel economy from being affected visually inspect the hybrid battery traction battery air intake vent peri odically for dust and clogs. If it is dusty or clogged or if Mainte nance Required for Traction Battery Cooling Parts See Owner s Manual is displayed on the multi information display clean the air intake vent using the following procedures Cleaning the air intake vent Remove the dust from the air intake vent with a vacuum cleaner etc. Make sure to only use a vacuum to suck out dust and clogs. Attempt ing to blow out dust and clogs using an airgun etc. may push it into the air intake vent. P. If dust and clogs cannot be completely removed If dust and clogs cannot be completely removed with the air intake vent cover installed remove the cover and clean the filter. Turn the power switch off. Using a Phillips screwdriver remove the clip. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Remove the air intake vent cover. Pull the cover as shown in the illustration to disengage the claws starting from the claw in the upper right cor ner. Pull the cover toward the front of the vehicle to remove it. Remove the air intake vent fil ter. Disengage the claws as shown in the illustration. Remove the filter from the cover. Remove the dust and clogs from the filter using a vacuum cleaner etc. Make sure to also remove the dust and clogs from the inside of the air intake vent cover. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Reinstall the filter to the cover. Engage the filter to the claws as shown in the illus tration. Engage the claws to install the filter. Make sure that the filter is not crooked or deformed when install ing it. Install the air intake vent cover. Insert the tab of the cover as shown in the illustration. Push the cover to engage the claws. Using a Phillips screwdriver install the clip. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Scheduled maintenance of the air intake vent is necessary when In some situations such as when the vehicle is used frequently or in heavy traffic or dusty areas the air intake vent may need to be cleaned more regu larly. For details refer to Toyota Service Booklet or Toyota Warranty Book let. Cleaning the air intake vent Dust in the air intake vent may interfere with the cooling of the hybrid battery traction battery. If charging discharging of the hybrid battery traction bat tery becomes limited the distance that the vehicle can be driven using the electric motor traction motor may be reduced and the fuel economy may be reduced. Inspect and clean the air intake vent periodically. Improper handling of the air intake vent cover and filter may result in dam age to them. If you have any concerns about cleaning the filter contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. If Maintenance Required for Traction Battery Cooling Parts See Owner s Manual is displayed on the multi information display If this warning message is displayed on the multi information display remove the air intake vent cover and clean the filter. P. After cleaning the air intake vent start the hybrid system and check that the warning message is no longer displayed. After the hybrid system is started it may be necessary to drive the vehicle up to approximately minutes before the warning message disappears. If the warning message does not disappear after driving for appropriately minutes have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. WARNING When cleaning the air intake vent Do not use water or other liquids to clean the air intake vent. If water is applied to the hybrid battery traction battery or other components a mal function or fire may occur. Before cleaning the air intake vent make sure to turn the power switch off to stop the hybrid system. When removing the air intake vent cover Do not touch the service plug located near the air intake vent. P. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance NOTICE When cleaning the air intake vent When cleaning the air intake vent make sure to only use a vacuum to suck out dust and clogs. If a compressed air blow gun etc. is used to blow out dust and clogs the dust or clogs may be pushed into the air intake vent which may affect the performance of the hybrid battery traction battery and cause a malfunc tion. To prevent damage to the vehicle Do not allow water or foreign matter to enter the air intake vent when the cover is removed. Carefully handle the removed filter so that it will not be damaged. If the filter is damaged have it replaced with a new filter by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Make sure to reinstall the filter and cover to their original positions after cleaning. Do not install anything to the air intake vent other than the exclusive filter for this vehicle or use the vehicle without the filter installed. If Maintenance Required for Traction Battery Cooling Parts See Owner s Manual is displayed on the multi information display If the vehicle is continuously driven with the warning message indicating that charging discharging of the hybrid battery traction battery may become limited displayed the hybrid battery traction battery may mal function. If a warning message is displayed clean the air intake vent imme diately. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Electronic key battery Replace the battery with a new one if it is depleted. You will need the following items Flathead screwdriver Small flathead screwdriver Lithium battery CR Replacing the battery Release the lock and remove the mechanical key. Remove the key cover. To prevent damage to the key cover the tip of the flathead screw driver with a rag. Remove the depleted battery using a small flathead screw driver. When removing the cover the electronic key module may stick to the cover and the battery may not be visible. In this case remove the electronic key module in order to remove the battery. Insert a new battery with the terminal facing up. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance When installing the key cover and mechanical key install by con ducting and with the directions reversed. Operate the or switch and check that the doors can be locked unlocked. When replacing the key battery Be careful not to lose the battery or any other small parts. Use a CR lithium battery Batteries can be purchased at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer local electrical appliance shops or camera stores. Replace only with the same or equivalent type recommended by the manu facturer. Dispose of used batteries according to local laws. If the key battery is depleted The following symptoms may occur The smart entry start system and wireless remote control will not function properly. The operational range will be reduced. WARNING Removed battery and other parts These parts are small and if swallowed by a child they can cause choking. Keep away from children. Failure to do so could result in death or serious injury. Certification for the lithium battery CAUTION RISK OF EXPLOSION IF BATTERY IS REPLACED BY AN INCORRECT TYPE. DISPOSE OF USED BATTERIES ACCORDING TO THE INSTRUC TIONS NOTICE For normal operation after replacing the battery Observe the following precautions to prevent accidents Always work with dry hands. Moisture may cause the battery to rust. Do not touch or move any other component inside the remote control. Do not bend either of the battery terminals. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Checking and replacing fuses If any of the electrical components do not operate a fuse may have blown. If this happens check and replace the fuses as nec essary. Turn the power switch off. Open the fuse box cover. Engine compartment type A Engine compartment type B Push the tabs in and lift the lid off. Push the tabs in and lift the lid off. Under the driver s side instru Under the passenger s side ment panel left hand drive instrument panel right hand vehicles drive vehicles Remove the lid. Remove the lid. Make sure to push the claw when Make sure to push the claw when removing installing the lid. removing installing the lid. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Remove the fuse with the pull out tool. Only type A fuses can be removed using the pullout tool. Check if the fuse is blown. Type A Type B Type C Normal fuse Blown fuse Replace the blown fuse with a new fuse of an appropriate amperage rat ing. The amperage rating can be found on the fuse box lid. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance After a fuse is replaced If the lights do not turn on even after the fuse has been replaced a bulb may need replacement. P. If the replaced fuse blows again have the vehicle inspected by any autho rized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. If there is an overload in a circuit The fuses are designed to blow protecting the wiring harness from damage. WARNING To prevent system breakdowns and vehicle fire Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may cause damage to the vehicle and possibly a fire or injury. Never use a fuse of a higher amperage rating than that indicated or use any other object in place of a fuse. Always use a genuine Toyota fuse or equivalent. Never replace a fuse with a wire even as a temporary fix. Do not modify the fuses or fuse boxes. NOTICE Before replacing fuses Have the cause of electrical overload determined and repaired by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer as soon as possible. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Light bulbs You may replace the following bulbs yourself. The difficulty level of replacement varies depending on the bulb. If necessary bulb replacement seems difficult to perform contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. For more information about replacing other light bulbs contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Preparing for light bulb replacement Check the wattage of the light bulb to be replaced. P. Bulb locations Front Rear Front turn signal lights Back up lights bulb type bulb type Rear turn signal lights bulb type CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Replacing light bulbs Front turn signal lights bulb type Turn the bulb base counterclockwise. The shape of the bulb base may be different than shown depend ing on the intended destination of the vehicle. Remove the light bulb. Install a new light bulb and then install the bulb base to the light unit by inserting it and turning it clockwise. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Back up lights bulb type Open the trunk lid and remove the clips. Partly remove the trunk lid cover. Turn the bulb base counterclockwise. Remove the light bulb. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Install a new light bulb and then install the bulb base to the light unit by inserting it and turning it clockwise. Reinstall the trunk lid cover with the clips. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Rear turn signal lights bulb type Open the trunk and apply protective tape to the vehicle body around the light unit. Use masking tape etc. Do not use duct tape as it may leave residue or damage the paint when removed. Remove the cover. Insert a flathead screw driver between the cover and the light unit and pry up the cover in several positions as shown in the illustration to disengage the claws indicated by a dotted line. Pull the cover toward the rear of the vehicle to dis engage the claws indi cated by a dotted line and remove the cover. To prevent scratching the vehi cle wrap the tip of the flathead screwdriver with a cloth etc. Remove the bolts. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Remove the light unit. Attach a long piece of packing tape to the light unit and fold the excess in half. Hold the folded portion and pull it toward the rear of the vehicle to remove the light unit. Turn the bulb base counterclockwise. Remove the light bulb. CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance Install a new light bulb and then install the bulb base to the light unit by inserting it and turning it clockwise. Install the light unit. Align the tabs and push the light unit toward the front of the vehi cle to install it. Install the bolts. CAMRY HV EE. Do it yourself maintenance Install the cover. Remove the protective tape. Replacing the following bulbs If any of the lights listed below has burnt out have it replaced by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Headlights Daytime running lights front position lights Front turn signal lights LED type Front fog lights if equipped Side turn signal lights Tail lights Rear side marker lights Stoplights Rear turn signal lights LED type Back up lights LED type Rear fog light High mounted stoplight License plate lights CAMRY HV EE Maintenance and care. Do it yourself maintenance LED light bulbs The lights other than the front turn signal lights bulb type back up lights bulb type and rear turn signal lights bulb type consist of a number of LEDs. If any of the LEDs burn out take your vehicle to any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer to have the light replaced. Condensation build up on the inside of the lens Temporary condensation build up on the inside of the headlight lens does not indicate a malfunction. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer for more information in the following situations Large drops of water have built up on the inside of the lens. Water has built up inside the headlight. WARNING Replacing light bulbs Turn off the lights. Do not attempt to replace the bulb immediately after turning off the lights. The bulbs become very hot and may cause burns. Do not touch the glass portion of the light bulb with bare hands. When it is unavoidable to hold the glass portion use and hold with a clean dry cloth to avoid getting moisture and oils on the bulb. Also if the bulb is scratched or dropped it may blow out or crack. Fully install light bulbs and any parts used to secure them. Failure to do so may result in heat damage fire or water entering the headlight unit. This may damage the headlights or cause condensation to build up on the lens. To prevent damage or fire Make sure bulbs are fully seated and locked. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Essential information. Steps to take in an Emergency flashers emergency If your vehicle has to If your vehicle needs to be stopped in an be towed emergency If you think something is If the vehicle is trapped in wrong rising water If a warning light turns on or a warning buzzer sounds If a warning message is displayed If you have a flat tire vehicles with an emergency tire puncture repair kit If you have a flat tire vehicles with a spare tire If the hybrid system will not start If the electronic key does not operate properly If the vehicle volt battery is discharged If your vehicle overheats If the vehicle becomes stuck CAMRY HV EE. Essential information Emergency flashers The emergency flashers are used to warn other drivers when the vehicle has to be stopped on the road due to a breakdown etc. Press the switch. All the turn signal lights will flash. To turn them off press the switch once again. Emergency flashers If the emergency flashers are used for a long time while the hybrid system is not operating while the READY indicator is not illuminated the volt bat tery may discharge. CAMRY HV EE. Essential information If your vehicle has to be stopped in an emergency Only in an emergency such as if it becomes impossible to stop the vehicle in the normal way stop the vehicle using the follow ing procedure Steadily step on the brake pedal with both feet and firmly depress it. Do not pump the brake pedal repeatedly as this will increase the effort required to slow the vehicle. Shift the shift lever to N. If the shift lever is shifted to N After slowing down stop the vehicle in a safe place by the road. Stop the hybrid system. If the shift lever cannot be shifted to N Keep depressing the brake pedal with both feet to reduce vehicle speed as much as possible. To stop the hybrid system press and hold the power switch for consecutive sec onds or more or press it briefly times or more in succession. Press and hold for seconds or more or press briefly times or more Stop the vehicle in a safe place by the road. WARNING If the hybrid system has to be turned off while driving Power assist for the steering wheel will be lost making the steering wheel heavier to turn. Decelerate as much as possible before turning off the hybrid system. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Essential information If the vehicle is trapped in rising water In the event the vehicle is submerged in water remain calm and perform the following. Remove the seat belt first. If the door can be opened open the door and exit the vehicle. If the door cannot be opened open the window using the power window switch and exit the vehicle through the window. If the window cannot be opened using the power window switch remain calm wait until the water level inside the vehicle rises to the point that the water pressure inside of the vehicle equals the water pressure outside of the vehicle and then open the door and exit the vehicle. WARNING Using an emergency hammer for emergency escape The front side windows and rear side windows as well as the rear window can be shattered with an emergency hammer used for emergency escape. However an emergency hammer cannot shatter the windshield as it is laminated glass. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer or aftermarket accessory manufacturer for further information about an emergency hammer. Escaping the vehicle from the window There are cases where escaping the vehicle from the window is not possi ble due to seating position passenger body type etc. When using an emergency hammer consider your seat location and the size of the window opening to ensure that the opening is accessible and large enough to escape. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency If your vehicle needs to be towed If towing is necessary we recommend having your vehicle towed by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer or commercial towing service using a wheel lift type truck or flatbed truck. Use a safety chain system for all towing and abide by all state provincial and local laws. Situations when it is necessary to contact dealers before towing The following may indicate a problem with your transmission. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer or commercial towing service before towing. A warning message for the hybrid system is shown on the multi information display and the vehicle does not move. The vehicle makes an abnormal sound. Towing with a sling type truck Do not tow with a sling type truck to prevent body damage. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Towing with a wheel lift type truck From the front From the rear Release the parking brake. Use a towing dolly under the front wheels. Using a flatbed truck If your vehicle is transported by a flatbed truck it should be tied down at the locations shown in the illustration. Covers are installed to the tie down holes. After transporting the vehi cle make sure to reinstall the cov ers to the holes. Front If you use chains or cables to tie down your vehicle the angles shaded in black must be. Do not overly tighten the tie downs or the vehicle may be dam aged. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Emergency towing If a tow truck is not available in an emergency your vehicle may be temporarily towed using cables or chains secured to the emergency towing eyelets. This should only be attempted on hard surfaced roads for short distance at under km h mph. A driver must be in the vehicle to steer and operate the brakes. The vehicle s wheels drive train axles steering and brakes must be in good condition. Emergency towing procedure Take out the towing eyelet. P. Remove the eyelet cover using a flathead screwdriver. To protect the bodywork place a rag between the screwdriver and the vehicle body as shown in the illustration. Insert the towing eyelet into the hole and tighten partially by hand. Tighten down the towing eyelet securely using a wheel nut wrench or hard metal bar. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Securely attach cables or chains to the towing eyelet. Take care not to damage the vehicle body. Enter the vehicle being towed and start the hybrid system. If the hybrid system does not start turn the power switch to ON mode. Shift the shift lever to N and release the parking brake. When the shift lever cannot be shifted P. While towing If the hybrid system is off the power assist for the brakes and steering will not function making steering and braking more difficult. Wheel nut wrench Wheel nut wrench is installed in the trunk. P. WARNING Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in death or serious injury. When towing the vehicle Be sure to transport the vehicle with the front wheels raised or with all four wheels raised off the ground. If the vehicle is towed with the front wheels contacting the ground the drivetrain and related parts may be damaged or electricity gen erated by the operation of the motor may cause a fire to occur depending on the nature of the damage or malfunction. While towing When towing using cables or chains avoid sudden starts etc. which place excessive stress on the towing eyelets cables or chains. The towing eye lets cables or chains may become damaged broken debris may hit peo ple and cause serious damage. Do not turn the power switch off. There is a possibility that the steering wheel is locked and cannot be oper ated. Installing towing eyelets to the vehicle Make sure that towing eyelets are installed securely. If not securely installed towing eyelets may come loose during towing. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency NOTICE To prevent damage to the vehicle when towing using a wheel lift type truck Do not tow the vehicle from the rear when the power switch is off. The steering lock mechanism is not strong enough to hold the front wheels straight. When raising the vehicle ensure adequate ground clearance for towing at the opposite end of the raised vehicle. Without adequate clearance the vehicle could be damaged while being towed. To prevent damage to the vehicle when towing with a sling type truck Do not tow with a sling type truck either from the front or rear. To prevent damage to the vehicle during emergency towing Do not secure cables or chains to the suspension components. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency If you think something is wrong If you notice any of the following symptoms your vehicle proba bly needs adjustment or repair. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer as soon as possible. Visible symptoms Fluid leaks under the vehicle. Water dripping from the air conditioning after use is normal. Flat looking tires or uneven tire wear Engine coolant temperature gauge needle continually points higher than normal Audible symptoms Changes in exhaust sound Excessive tire squeal when cornering Strange noises related to the suspension system Pinging or other noises related to the hybrid system Operational symptoms Engine missing stumbling or running roughly Appreciable loss of power Vehicle pulls heavily to one side when braking Vehicle pulls heavily to one side when driving on a level road Loss of brake effectiveness spongy feeling pedal almost touches the floor CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency If a warning light turns on or a warning buzzer sounds Calmly perform the following actions if any of the warning lights comes on or flashes. If a light comes on or flashes but then goes off this does not necessarily indicate a malfunction in the system. However if this continues to occur have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Warning light and warning buzzer list Warning light Warning light Details Actions Brake system warning light Indicates that cid The brake fluid level is low or cid The brake system is malfunctioning Immediately stop the vehicle in a safe place and con Red tact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota autho rized repairer or any reliable repairer. Continuing to drive the vehicle may be dangerous. Brake system warning light Indicates a malfunction in cid The regenerative braking system cid The electronically controlled brake system or cid The electric parking brake Yellow Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. Malfunction indicator lamp Indicates a malfunction in cid The hybrid system cid The electronic engine control system or cid The electronic throttle control system Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Warning light Warning light Details Actions SRS warning light Indicates a malfunction in cid The SRS airbag system or cid The seat belt pretensioner system Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. ABS warning light Indicates a malfunction in cid The ABS or cid The brake assist system Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. Parking brake indicator warning buzzer It is possible that the parking brake is not fully engaged or released Operate the parking brake once again. This light comes on when the parking brake is not Flashes released. If the light turns off after the parking brake is fully released the system is operating normally. Brake hold operated indicator Indicates a malfunction in the brake hold system Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable Flashes repairer immediately. Electric power steering system warning light warning buzzer Indicates a malfunction in the EPS Electric Power Steer ing system Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota Red yellow retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. LDA Lane Departure Alert indicator Indicates a malfunction in the LDA When Lane Departure Alert Unavailable is dis played on the multi information display turn the LDA system off drive the vehicle for a short time and Yellow then turn the LDA system back on. P. When a message other than above is displayed fol low the instructions displayed in the message. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Warning light Warning light Details Actions PCS warning light Indicates a malfunction in the PCS Pre Collision System or that the system is temporarily unavailable due to the vehicle being extremely hot cold or dirt around a front sensor etc. P. Follow the instructions displayed on the multi infor mation display. P. Flashes or illuminates If the PCS Pre Collision System or VSC Vehicle Stability Control system is disabled the PCS warning light will illu minate. P. ICS OFF indicator When a buzzer sounds Indicates a malfunction in the Intelligent Clearance Sonar system Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable if equipped repairer immediately. Flashes When a buzzer does not sound Indicates that the system is temporarily unavailable possi bly due to a sensor being dirty or covered with ice etc. Clear the dirt etc. Slip indicator Indicates a malfunction in cid The VSC Vehicle Stability Control system cid The TRC Traction Control system cid The ABS or cid The hill start assist control system The light will flash when the ABS VSC or TRC system is operating. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. Low fuel level warning light Indicates that remaining fuel is approximately. L. gal Imp. gal. or less Refuel the vehicle. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Warning light Warning light Details Actions Driver s and front passenger s seat belt reminder light warning buzzer Warns the driver and or front passenger to fasten their seat belts Fasten the seat belt. If the front passenger s seat is occupied the front passenger s seat belt also needs to be fastened to make the warning light warning buzzer turn off. Master warning light A buzzer sounds and the warning light comes on and flashes to indicate that the master warning system has detected a malfunction. P. Tire pressure warning light Indicates the following cid Low tire pressure due to flat tire cid Low tire pressure due to natural causes or cid The tire pressure warning system is malfunctioning Immediately stop the vehicle in a safe place. Handling method P. Parking brake engaged warning buzzer A buzzer will sound if the vehicle is driven at a speed of approximately km h mph or more. Driver s and front passenger s seat belt warning buzzer The driver s and front passenger s seat belt warning buzzer sounds to alert the driver and front passenger that his or her seat belt is not fastened. The buzzer sounds for seconds after the vehicle reaches a speed of km h mph. Then if the seat belt is still unfastened the buzzer will sound in a different tone for more seconds. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Front passenger detection sensor seat belt reminder and warning buzzer If luggage is placed on the front passenger seat the front passenger detec tion sensor may cause the warning light to flash and the warning buzzer to sound even if a passenger is not sitting in the seat. If a cushion is placed on the seat the sensor may not detect a passenger and the warning light may not operate properly. If the malfunction indicator lamp comes on while driving The malfunction indicator lamp will come on if the fuel tank becomes com pletely empty. If the fuel tank is empty refuel the vehicle immediately. The malfunction indicator lamp will go off after several trips. If the malfunction indicator lamp does not go off contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer as soon as possible. Electric power steering system warning light warning buzzer When the volt battery charge becomes insufficient or the voltage tempo rarily drops the electric power steering system warning light may come on and the warning buzzer may sound. When the tire pressure warning light comes on Inspect the tires to check if a tire is punctured. If a tire is punctured P. If none of the tires are punctured Turn the power switch off then turn it to ON mode. Check if the tire pressure warning light comes on or blinks. If the tire pressure warning light comes on After the temperature of the tires has lowered sufficiently check the infla tion pressure of each tire and adjust them to the specified level. If the warning light does not turn off even after several minutes have elapsed check that the inflation pressure of each tire is at the specified level and perform initialization. P. If the warning light does not turn off several minutes after the initialization has been performed have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. If the tire pressure warning light blinks for minute then stays on There may be a malfunction in the tire pressure warning system. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency The tire pressure warning light may come on due to natural causes The tire pressure warning light may come on due to natural causes such as natural air leaks and tire inflation pressure changes caused by temperature. In this case adjusting the tire inflation pressure will turn off the warning light after a few minutes. When a tire is replaced with a spare tire Vehicles with a compact spare tire The compact spare tire is not equipped with a tire pressure warning valve and transmitter. If a tire goes flat the tire pressure warning light will not turn off even though the flat tire has been replaced with the spare tire. Replace the spare tire with the repaired tire and adjust the tire inflation pressure. The tire pressure warning light will go off after a few minutes. Vehicles with a full size spare tire The spare tire is also equipped with a tire pressure warning valve and transmitter. The tire pressure warning light will turn on if the tire inflation pressure of the spare tire is low. If a tire goes flat the tire pressure warning light will not turn off even though the flat tire has been replaced with the spare tire. Replace the spare tire with the repaired tire and adjust the tire inflation pressure. The tire pressure warning light will go off after a few minutes. Conditions that the tire pressure warning system may not function prop erly P. Warning buzzer In some cases the buzzer may not be heard because of noisy place or an audio sound. WARNING If both the ABS and the brake system warning lights remain on Stop your vehicle in a safe place immediately and contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. The vehicle will become extremely unstable during braking and the ABS system may fail which could cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency WARNING When the electric power steering system warning light comes on When the light comes on yellow the assist to the power steering is restricted. When the light comes on red the assist to the power steering is lost and handling operations of the steering wheel become extremely heavy. If the steering wheel becomes heavier than usual when operating hold firmly and operate using more force than usual. If the tire pressure warning light comes on Be sure to observe the following precautions. Failure to do so could cause a loss of vehicle control and result in death or serious injury. Stop your vehicle in a safe place as soon as possible. Adjust the tire infla tion pressure immediately. Vehicles with a compact spare tire and full size spare tire If the tire pres sure warning light comes on even after tire inflation pressure adjustment it is probable that you have a flat tire. Check the tires. If a tire is flat change it with the spare tire and have the flat tire repaired by the nearest any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Vehicles with emergency tire puncture repair kit If the tire pressure warn ing light comes on even after tire inflation pressure adjustment it is proba ble that you have a flat tire. Check the tires. If a tire is flat repair the flat tire by using emergency tire puncture repair kit. Avoid abrupt maneuvering and braking. If the vehicle tires deteriorate you could lose control of the steering wheel or the brakes. If a blowout or sudden air leakage should occur The tire pressure warning system may not activate immediately. NOTICE To ensure the tire pressure warning system operates properly Do not install tires with different specifications or makers as the tire pres sure warning system may not operate properly. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency If a warning message is displayed The multi information display shows warnings of system mal functions incorrectly performed operations and messages that indicate a need for maintenance. When a message is shown perform the correction procedure appropriate to the message. Master warning light The master warning light also comes on or flashes in order to indicate that a message is cur rently being displayed on the multi information display. Multi information display Handling method Follow the instructions of the mes sage on the multi information dis play. If any of the warning messages are shown again after the appropriate actions have been performed contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Messages and warnings The warning lights and warning buzzers operate as follows depending on the content of the message. If a message indicates the need for inspection by a dealer have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. System warning Warning buzzer Warning light Indicates an important situation such as when a system related to Comes Sounds driving is malfunctioning or that on danger may result if the correction procedure is not performed Indicates an important situation Comes such as when the systems shown on or Sounds on the multi information display flashes may be malfunctioning Indicates a situation such as Flashes Sounds when damage to the vehicle or danger may result Indicates a condition such as mal Comes function of electrical components Does not sound on their condition or indicates the need for maintenance Indicates a situation such as when an operation has been per Flashes Does not sound formed incorrectly or indicates how to perform an operation cor rectly The operation of the warning lights and warning buzzers may differ from those stated. In this case perform the correction procedure according to the displayed message. A buzzer sounds the first time a message is shown on the multi informa tion display. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Warning messages The warning messages explained below may differ from the actual messages according to operation conditions and vehicle specifications. System warning lights The master warning light does not come on or flash in the following cases. Instead a separate system warning light will come on along with a message shown on the multi information display. Malfunction in the ABS The ABS warning light comes on. P. Malfunction in the brake system The brake system warning light yellow comes on. P. Malfunction in the tire pressure warning system The tire pressure warning light comes on. P. Remaining fuel level is low The low fuel level warning light comes on. P. If a message instructing to refer to the Owner s Manual is displayed If the following messages are shown there may be a malfunction. Immediately stop the vehicle in a safe place and contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Con tinuing to drive the vehicle may be dangerous. cid Braking Power Low Stop in a Safe Place See Owner s Manual cid Oil Pressure Low Stop in a Safe Place See Owner s Manual cid Charging System Malfunction Stop in a Safe Place See Owner s Man ual If the following message is shown there may be a malfunction. Immediately have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. cid Hybrid System Malfunction cid Check Engine cid Hybrid Battery System Malfunction cid Accelerator System Malfunction cid Smart Key System Malfunction See Owner s Manual If Engine Coolant Temp High Stop in a Safe Place See Owner s Manual is displayed follow the instructions accordingly. P. If Maintenance Required for Traction Battery Cooling Parts See Owner s Manual is displayed follow the instructions accordingly. P. If Hybrid System Overheated Output Power Reduced is shown This message may be displayed when driving under severe operating condi tions. For example when driving up a long steep hill. Handling method P. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency If Maintenance Required for Traction Battery Cooling Parts See Owner s Manual is shown The filter may be clogged the air intake vent may be blocked or there may be a gap in the duct. If the air intake vent or filter is dirty refer to P. for cleaning the air intake vent and filter. If the message is being displayed and the air intake vent and filter are not dirty have the vehicle inspected at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. If Traction Battery Needs to be Protected Refrain From the Use of N Position is shown This message may be displayed when the shift lever is in N. As the hybrid battery traction battery cannot be charged when the shift lever is in N shift the shift lever to P when the vehicle is stopped. If Traction Battery Needs to be Protected Shift into P to Restart is shown This message is displayed when the hybrid battery traction battery charge has become extremely low because the shift lever has been left in N for a cer tain amount of time. When operating the vehicle shift to P and restart the hybrid system. If Shift to P Before Exiting Vehicle is shown Message is displayed when the driver s door is opened without turning the power switch off with the shift lever in any position other than P. Shift the shift lever to P. If Shift Out of N Release Accelerator Before Shifting is shown Message is displayed when the accelerator pedal has been depressed and the shift lever is in N. Release the accelerator pedal and shift the shift lever to D or R. If Press Brake When Vehicle Is Stopped Hybrid System May Overheat is shown Message is displayed when the accelerator pedal is depressed to maintain the vehicle position when stopped on a upward slope etc. If this continues the hybrid system may overheat. Release the accelerator pedal and depress the brake pedal. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency If Auto Power OFF to Conserve Battery is displayed This message is displayed when the power was cut off due to the automatic power off function. The next time the hybrid system is started increase the engine speed slightly and maintain it at that speed for approximately minutes to recharge the volt battery. If New Key Registered Contact Your Dealer if You Did Not Register a New Key is displayed This message will be displayed each time the driver s door is opened when the doors are unlocked from the outside for approximately one week after a new electronic key has been registered. If this message is displayed but you have not had a new electronic key regis tered ask any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer to check if an unknown electronic key other than those in your possession has been registered. When Headlight System Malfunction Visit Your Dealer is displayed The following systems may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. The LED headlight system The automatic headlight leveling system Automatic High Beam If Front Camera Unavailable or Front Camera Temporarily Unavailable See Owner s Manual is displayed The following systems may be suspended until the problem shown in the message is resolved. P. PCS Pre Collision System LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control Dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range RSA Road Sign Assist Automatic High Beam If Engine Oil Level Low Add or Replace is displayed The engine oil level may be low. Check the level of the engine oil and add engine oil if necessary. This message may be displayed if the vehicle is stopped on a slope. Move the vehicle to a level surface and check if the mes sage disappears. Warning buzzer P. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency NOTICE It High Power Consumption Partial Limit on AC Heater Operation is frequently shown There is a possible malfunction relating to the charging system or the volt battery may be deteriorating. Have the vehicle inspected by any autho rized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency If you have a flat tire vehicles with an emergency tire puncture repair kit Your vehicle is not equipped with a spare tire but instead is equipped with an emergency tire puncture repair kit. A puncture caused by a nail or screw passing through the tire tread can be repaired temporarily with the emergency tire punc ture repair kit. The emergency tire puncture repair kit contains a bottle of sealant. The sealant can be used only once to tempo rarily repair one tire without removing the nail or screw from the tire. Depending on the damage this kit cannot be used to repair the tire. P. After temporarily repairing the tire with the kit have the tire repaired or replaced by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Repairs conducted using the emergency tire puncture repair kit are only a tempo rary measure. Have the tire repaired and replaced as soon as possible. WARNING If you have a flat tire Do not continue driving with a flat tire. Driving even a short distance with a flat tire can damage the tire and the wheel beyond repair which could result in an accident. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Before repairing the tire Stop the vehicle in a safe place on a hard flat surface. Set the parking brake. Shift the shift lever to P. Stop the hybrid system. Turn on the emergency flashers. P. Check the degree of the tire damage. A tire should only be repaired with the emergency tire punc ture repair kit if the damage is caused by a nail or screw pass ing through the tire tread. cid Do not remove the nail or screw from the tire. Remov ing the object may widen the opening and disenable emer gency repair with the kit. cid To avoid sealant leakage move the vehicle until the area of the puncture if known is positioned at the top of the tire. A flat tire that cannot be repaired with the emergency tire puncture repair kit In the following cases the tire cannot be repaired with the emergency tire puncture repair kit. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota autho rized repairer or any reliable repairer. When the tire is damaged due to driving without sufficient air pressure When the tire lost air pressure due to a crack or damage in the tire sidewall When the tire is visibly separated from the wheel When the cut or damage to the tread is mm. in. long or more When the wheel is damaged When two or more tires have been punctured When there is more than one hole or cut in the damaged tire CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Location of the emergency tire puncture repair kit jack and tools Luggage floor cover Jack Emergency tire puncture repair Wheel nut wrench kit Bottle Jack handle Emergency tire puncture repair Towing eyelet kit Compressor Use of the jack P. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Emergency tire puncture repair kit components Bottle Hose Air release cap Sticker Compressor Power plug Rubber stopper Air pressure gauge Compressor switch CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Taking out the emergency tire puncture repair kit Lift up the hook of the luggage floor cover on the trunk floor. Secure the luggage floor cover using the hook provided. Remove the emergency tire puncture repair kit. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Emergency repair method Remove the valve cap from the valve of the punctured tire. Remove the emergency tire puncture repair kit from the plastic bag. A sticker is included in the plastic bag. Attach the sticker as shown in step. Extend the hose. Remove the air release cap from the hose. You will use the air release cap again. Therefore keep it in a safe place. Connect the hose to the valve. Screw the end of hose clockwise as far as possible. Make sure that the compressor switch is off. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Lift the rubber stopper on the compressor. Remove the power plug from the compressor. Connect the power plug to the power outlet socket. P. Connect the bottle to the com pressor. Make sure that the bottle is securely connected. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Attach the sticker as shown. Check the specified tire inflation pressure. Tire inflation pressure is specified on the label as shown. P. Left hand drive vehicles Right hand drive vehicles Start the hybrid system. P. To inject the sealant and inflate the tire turn the compressor switch on. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Inflate the tire until the recom mended pressure is reached. The sealant will be injected and the pressure will spike to between kPa. kgf cm or bar psi and kPa. kgf cm or bar psi then gradually decrease. The air pressure gauge will display the actual tire infla tion pressure about to minutes after the switch is turned on. cid Turn the compressor switch off and then check the tire inflation pressure. Being careful not to over inflate check and repeat the inflation procedure until the recommended tire inflation pressure is reached. cid If the tire inflation pressure is still lower than the recommended level after inflation for minutes with the switch on the tire is too damaged to be repaired. Turn the compressor switch off and contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota autho rized repairer or any reliable repairer. cid If the tire inflation pressure exceeds the recommended level let out some air to adjust the tire inflation pressure. P. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency With the compressor switch off disconnect the hose from the valve on the tire and then pull out the power plug from the power outlet socket. Some sealant may leak when the hose is removed. Install the valve cap onto the valve of the emergency repaired tire. Attach the air release cap to the end of the hose. If the air release cap is not attached the sealant may leak and the vehicle may get dirty. Temporarily store the bottle in the luggage compartment while it is connected to the compressor. To spread the liquid sealant evenly within the tire immediately drive safety for about km miles below km h mph. After driving stop your vehicle in a safe place on a hard flat surface and reconnect the com pressor. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Turn the compressor switch on and wait for several seconds then turn it off. Check the tire inflation pressure. If the tire inflation pressure is below kPa. kgf cm or bar psi The puncture cannot be repaired. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. If the tire inflation pressure is between kPa. kgf cm or bar psi and a point below the recommended level The tire can be repaired. Proceed to step. If the tire inflation pressure is at the recommended level Proceed to step. Turn the compressor switch on to inflate the tire until the recom mended tire inflation pressure is reached. Drive for about km miles and then perform step. Attach the air release cap to the end of the hose. If the air release cap is not attached the sealant may leak and the vehicle may get dirty. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Store the bottle in the luggage compartment while it is connected to the compressor. Taking precautions to avoid sudden braking sudden acceleration and sharp turns drive carefully at under km h mph to any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reli able repairer that is less than km miles away for tire repair or replacement. Make sure to tell any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer when you have them repair or replace the tire that sealant is injected. Emergency tire puncture repair kit The sealant stored in the emergency tire puncture repair kit can be used only once to temporarily repair a single tire. If the sealant has been used and needs to be purchased contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. The compressor is reusable. The sealant can be used when the outside temperature is from C F to C F. The kit is exclusively designed for size and type of tires originally installed on your vehicle. Do not use it for tires that a different size than the original ones or for any other purposes. If the sealant gets on your clothes it may stain. If the sealant adheres to a wheel or the surface of the vehicle body the stain may not be removable if it is not cleaned at once. Immediately wipe away the sealant with a wet cloth. During operation of the kit a loud operation noise is produced. This does not indicate a malfunction. Do not use to check or to adjust the tire pressure. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency If the tire is inflated to more than the recommended level Disconnect the hose from the valve. Install the air release cap to the end of the hose and push the protrusion on the air release cap into the valve to let some air out. Disconnect the hose from the valve remove the air release cap from the hose and then reconnect the hose. Turn the compressor switch on and wait for several seconds then turn it off. Check the tire inflation pressure. If the air pressure is lower than the recommended level turn the compres sor switch on again and repeat the inflation procedure until the recom mended pressure is reached. After a tire repaired with the emergency tire puncture repair kit The tire pressure warning valve and transmitter should be replaced. Even if the tire inflation pressure is at the recommended level the tire pres sure warning light may come on flash. Note for checking the emergency tire puncture repair kit Check the sealant expiry date occasionally. The expiry date is shown on the bottle. Do not use sealant whose expiry date has already passed. Otherwise repairs conducted using the emergency tire puncture repair kit may not be performed properly. The sealant should be replaced before the expiry date. Contact any autho rized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer for replacement. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency WARNING Caution while driving Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may cause an accident. Store the emergency tire puncture repair kit in the luggage compartment. Injuries may result in the event of an accident or sudden braking. The emergency tire puncture repair kit is made exclusively for your vehi cle. Do not use it on other vehicles which could lead to an accident caus ing death or serious injury. Do not use the emergency tire puncture repair kit for tires that are different sizes than the specified ones or for any other purpose. If the tires have not been completely repaired it could lead to an accident causing death or serious injury. Precautions for use of the sealant Ingesting the sealant is hazardous to your health. If you ingest sealant consume as much water as possible and then immediately consult a doc tor. If sealant gets in eyes or adheres to skin immediately wash it off with water. If discomfort persists consult a doctor. Do not drive the vehicle with a flat tire Do not continue driving with a flat tire. Driving even a short distance with a flat tire can damage the tire and the wheel beyond repair. Driving with a flat tire may cause a circumferential groove on the side wall. In such a case the tire may explode when using an emergency tire punc ture repair kit. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency WARNING When fixing the flat tire Stop your vehicle in a safe and flat area. Do not touch the wheels or the area around the brakes immediately after the vehicle has been driven. After the vehicle has been driven the wheels and the area around the brakes may be extremely hot. Touching these areas with hands feet or other body parts may result in burns. Connect the valve and hose securely with the tire installed on the vehicle. If the hose is not properly connected to the valve air leakage may occur or sealant may be sprayed out. If the hose comes off the valve while inflating the tire there is a risk that the hose will move abruptly due to air pressure. After inflation of the tire has completed the sealant may splatter when the hose is disconnected or some air is let out of the tire. Follow the operation procedure to repair the tire. If the procedure is not fol lowed the sealant may spray out. Keep back from the tire while it is being repaired as there is a chance of it bursting while the repair operation is being performed. If you notice any cracks or deformation of the tire turn off the compressor switch and stop the repair operation immediately. The kit may overheat if operated for a long period of time. Do not operate the compressor continuously for more than minutes. Parts of the emergency tire puncture repair kit will get hot during operation. Handle with care during and after operation. As the kit gets hot especially the metallic portion of the bottle and the compressor connection do not touch during use or immediately after use. Do not attach the vehicle speed warning sticker to an area other than the one indicated. If the sticker is attached to an area where an SRS airbag is located such as the pad of the steering wheel it may prevent the SRS airbag from operating properly. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency WARNING Driving to spread the liquid sealant evenly Observe the following precautions to reduce the risk of accidents. Failing to do so may result in a loss of vehicle control and cause death or serious injury. Drive the vehicle carefully at a low speed. Be especially careful when turn ing and cornering. If the vehicle does not drive straight or you feel a pull through the steering wheel stop the vehicle and check the following cid Tire condition. The tire may have separated from the wheel. cid Tire inflation pressure. If tire inflation pressure is kPa. kgf cm or bar psi or below this may indicate severe tire damage. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency NOTICE When performing an emergency repair Perform the emergency repair without removing the nail or screw that has punctured the tread of the tire. If the object that has punctured the tire is removed repair by the emergency tire puncture repair kit may not be pos sible. The kit is not waterproof. Make sure that the kit is not exposed to water such as when it is being used in the rain. Do not put the kit directly onto dusty ground such as sand at the side of the road. If the kit vacuums up dust etc. a malfunction may occur. Make sure to stand the kit with the bottle vertical. The kit cannot work properly if it is laid on its side. Handling the emergency tire puncture repair kit The compressor power source should be V DC suitable for vehicle use. Do not connect the compressor to any other source. If gasoline splatters on the kit the kit may deteriorate. Take care not to allow gasoline to contact it. When the emergency tire puncture repair kit is not being used be sure to leave it in the plastic bag and keep it in its proper storage position to pre vent it from being exposed to dirt or water. Store the kit in its assigned place out of reach of children. Do not disassemble or modify the kit. Do not subject parts such as the air pressure indicator to impacts. This may cause a malfunction. To avoid damage to the tire pressure warning valves and transmitters When a tire is repaired with liquid sealants the tire pressure warning valve and transmitter may not operate properly. If a liquid sealant is used contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer or other qualified service shop as soon as possible. After use of liq uid sealant make sure to replace the tire pressure warning valve and trans mitter when repairing or replacing the tire. P. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency If you have a flat tire vehicles with a spare tire Your vehicle is equipped with a spare tire. The flat tire can be replaced with the spare tire. For details about tires P. WARNING If you have a flat tire Do not continue driving with a flat tire. Driving even a short distance with a flat tire can damage the tire and the wheel beyond repair which could result in an accident. Before jacking up the vehicle Stop the vehicle in a safe place on a hard flat surface. Set the parking brake. Shift the shift lever to P. Stop the hybrid system. Turn on the emergency flashers. P. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Location of the spare tire jack and tools Vehicles with a compact spare tire Jack handle Luggage floor cover Towing eyelet Jack Wheel nut wrench Spare tire Vehicles with a full size spare tire Towing eyelet Jack handle Jack Spare tire cover Wheel nut wrench Spare tire Luggage floor cover CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency WARNING Using the tire jack Observe the following precautions. Improper use of the tire jack may cause the vehicle to suddenly fall off the jack leading to death or serious injury. Do not use the tire jack for any purpose other than replacing tires or install ing and removing tire chains. Only use the tire jack that comes with this vehicle for replacing a flat tire. Do not use it on other vehicles and do not use other tire jacks for replac ing tires on this vehicle. Put the jack properly in its jack point. Do not put any part of your body under the vehicle while it is supported by the jack. Do not start the hybrid system or drive the vehicle while the vehicle is sup ported by the jack. Do not raise the vehicle while someone is inside. When raising the vehicle do not put an object on or under the jack. Do not raise the vehicle to a height greater than that required to replace the tire. Use a jack stand if it is necessary to get under the vehicle. When lowering the vehicle make sure that there is no one near the vehi cle. If there are people nearby warn them vocally before lowering. NOTICE To prevent damage to the vehicle when using a jack When jacking up the rear of the vehicle make sure not to position the jack under the bracket shown in the illustration near the rear jack point as the vehicle body may be damaged. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Taking out the jack Lift up the hook of the luggage floor cover on the trunk floor. Secure the luggage floor cover using the hook provided. Remove the jack. Vehicles with a compact spare Vehicles with a full size spare tire tire CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Taking out the spare tire Lift up the hook of the luggage floor cover on the trunk floor. Secure the luggage floor cover using the hook provided. Remove the tool tray. Vehicles with a compact spare Vehicles with a full size spare tire tire CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Vehicles with a full size spare tire only Remove the spare tire cover. Loosen the center fastener that secures the spare tire. When taking out or stowing the spare tire make sure to firmly hold opposite end of the tire. WARNING When storing the spare tire Be careful not to catch fingers or other body parts between the spare tire and the body of the vehicle. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Replacing a flat tire Chock the tires. Flat tire Wheel chock positions Left hand side Behind the rear right hand side tire Front Right hand side Behind the rear left hand side tire Left hand side In front of the front right hand side tire Rear Right hand side In front of the front left hand side tire Slightly loosen the wheel nuts one turn. Turn the tire jack portion A by hand until the notch of the jack is in contact with the jack point. To prevent damage to the vehicle when using the jack position the jack in the correct location. P. The jack point guides are located under the rocker panel. They indi cate the jack point positions. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Assemble the jack handle. Raise the vehicle until the tire is slightly raised off the ground. Remove all the wheel nuts and the tire. When resting the tire on the ground place the tire so that the wheel design faces up to avoid scratching the wheel surface. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency WARNING Replacing a flat tire Do not touch the disc wheels or the area around the brakes immediately after the vehicle has been driven. After the vehicle has been driven the disc wheels and the area around the brakes will be extremely hot. Touching these areas with hands feet or other body parts while changing a tire etc. may result in burns. Failure to follow these precautions could cause the wheel nuts to loosen and the tire to fall off resulting in death or serious injury. cid Have the wheel nuts tightened with a torque wrench to N cid m. kgf cid m ft cid lbf as soon as possible after changing wheels. cid Do not attach a heavily damaged wheel ornament as it may fly off the wheel while the vehicle is moving. cid When installing a tire only use wheel nuts that have been specifically designed for that wheel. cid If there are any cracks or deformations in the bolt screws nut threads or bolt holes of the wheel have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. cid When installing the wheel nuts be sure to install them with the tapered ends facing inward. P. Installing the spare tire Remove any dirt or foreign mat ter from the wheel contact sur face. If foreign matter is on the wheel contact surface the wheel nuts may loosen while the vehicle is in motion causing the tire to come off. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Install the tire and loosely tighten each wheel nut by hand by approximately the same amount. Turn the wheel nuts until the Washer washers come into contact with the disc wheel. Disc wheel Lower the vehicle. Firmly tighten each wheel nut two or three times in the order shown in the illustration. Tightening torque N cid m. kgf cid m ft cid lbf Stow the flat tire tire jack and all tools. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency The compact spare tire if equipped The compact spare tire is identified by the label TEMPORARY USE ONLY on the tire sidewall. Use the compact spare tire temporarily and only in an emergency. Make sure to check the tire inflation pressure of the compact spare tire. P. When using the compact spare tire if equipped As the compact spare tire is not equipped with a tire pressure warning valve and transmitter low inflation pressure of the spare tire will not be indicated by the tire pressure warning system. Also if you replace the compact spare tire after the tire pressure warning light comes on the light remains on. When the compact spare tire is equipped if equipped When driving with the compact spare tire installed the vehicle height will be different than when driving with standard tires. If you have a flat front tire on a road covered with snow or ice vehicles with inch wheels and a compact spare tire Install the compact spare tire on one of the rear wheels of the vehicle. Per form the following steps and fit tire chains to the front tires Replace a rear tire with the compact spare tire. Replace the flat front tire with the tire removed from the rear of the vehicle. Fit tire chains to the front tires. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Certification for the jack CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency WARNING When using the compact spare tire if equipped Remember that the compact spare tire provided is specifically designed for use with your vehicle. Do not use your compact spare tire on another vehicle. Do not use more than one compact spare tires simultaneously. Replace the compact spare tire with a standard tire as soon as possible. Avoid sudden acceleration abrupt steering sudden braking and shifting operations that cause sudden engine braking. When the compact spare tire is attached if equipped The vehicle speed may not be correctly detected and the following systems may not operate correctly cid ABS Brake assist cid PCS Pre Collision System cid VSC cid Tire pressure warning system cid TRC cid Toyota parking assist sensor cid EPS cid Intelligent Clearance Sonar cid Automatic High Beam ICS cid Dynamic radar cruise control with cid Toyota parking assist monitor full speed range cid BSM Blind Spot Monitor cid LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control cid Navigation system If equipped Speed limit when using the compact spare tire if equipped Do not drive at speeds in excess of km h mph when a compact spare tire is installed on the vehicle. The compact spare tire is not designed for driving at high speeds. Failure to observe this precaution may lead to an accident causing death or serious injury. After using the tools and jack Before driving make sure all the tools and jack are securely in place in their storage location to reduce the possibility of personal injury during a collision or sudden braking. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency NOTICE Be careful when driving over bumps with the compact spare tire installed on the vehicle. if equipped The vehicle becomes lower when driving with the compact spare tire com pared to when driving with standard tires. Be careful when driving over uneven road surfaces. Driving with tire chains and the compact spare tire if equipped Do not fit tire chains to the compact spare tire. Tire chains may damage the vehicle body and adversely affect driving per formance. When replacing the tires When removing or fitting the wheels tires or the tire pressure warning valve and transmitter contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer as the tire pressure warning valve and transmitter may be damaged if not handled correctly. To avoid damage to the tire pressure warning valve and transmitters When a tire is repaired with liquid sealants the tire pressure warning valve and transmitter may not operate properly. If a liquid sealant is used contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer or other qualified service shop as soon as possible. Make sure to replace the tire pressure warning valve and transmitter when replacing the tire. P. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency If the hybrid system will not start Reasons for the hybrid system not starting vary depending on the situation. Check the following and perform the appropriate procedure The hybrid system will not start even though the correct starting procedure is being followed. P. One of the following may be the cause of the problem The electronic key may not be functioning properly. P. There may not be sufficient fuel in the vehicle s tank. Refuel the vehicle. There may be a malfunction in the immobilizer system. P. There may be a malfunction in the steering lock system. The hybrid system may be malfunctioning due to an electrical prob lem such as electronic key battery depletion or a blown fuse. How ever depending on the type of malfunction an interim measure is available to start the hybrid system. P. The interior lights and headlights are dim or the horn does not sound or sounds at a low volume. One of the following may be the cause of the problem The volt battery may be discharged. P. The volt battery terminal connections may be loose or corroded. P. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency The interior lights and headlights do not turn on or the horn does not sound. One of the following may be the cause of the problem The volt battery may be discharged. P. One or both of the volt battery terminals may be disconnected. P. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer if the problem cannot be repaired or if repair procedures are unknown. Emergency start function When the hybrid system does not start the following steps can be used as an interim measure to start the hybrid system if the power switch is functioning normally. Do not use this starting procedure except in case of emergency. Set the parking brake. Shift the shift lever to P. Turn the power switch to ACCESSORY mode. Press and hold the power switch for about seconds while depressing the brake pedal firmly. Even if the hybrid system can be started using the above steps the system may be malfunctioning. Have the vehicle inspected by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency If the electronic key does not operate properly If communication between the electronic key and vehicle is interrupted P. or the electronic key cannot be used because the battery is depleted the smart entry start system and wireless remote control cannot be used. In such cases the doors and trunk can be opened and the hybrid system can be started by following the procedure below. Locking and unlocking the doors unlocking the trunk and key linked functions Doors Use the mechanical key P. in order to perform the fol lowing operations driver s door only Locks all the doors Closes the windows turn and hold Unlocks all the door Opens the windows turn and hold This setting must be customized at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Trunk Turn the mechanical key clock wise to open. Starting the hybrid system Ensure that the shift lever is in P and firmly depress the brake pedal. Touch the Toyota emblem side of the electronic key to the power switch. When the electronic key is detected a buzzer sounds and the power switch will turn to ON mode. When the smart entry start sys tem is deactivated in customization setting the power switch will turn to ACCESSORY mode. Firmly depress the brake pedal and check that is displayed on the multi information display. Press the power switch shortly and firmly. In the event that the hybrid system still cannot be started contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Stopping the hybrid system Shift the shift lever to P and press the power switch as you normally do when stopping the hybrid system. Replacing the key battery As the above procedure is a temporary measure it is recommended that the electronic key battery be replaced immediately when the battery is depleted. P. Alarm if equipped Using the mechanical key to lock the doors will not set the alarm system. If a door is unlocked using the mechanical key when the alarm system is set the alarm may be triggered. Changing power switch modes Release the brake pedal and press the power switch in step above. The hybrid system does not start and modes will be changed each time the switch is pressed. P. When the electronic key does not work properly Make sure that the smart entry start system has not been deactivated in the customization setting. If it is off turn the function on. Customizable features P. Check if battery saving mode is set. If it is set cancel the function. P. WARNING When using the mechanical key and operating the power windows Operate the power window after checking to make sure that there is no pos sibility of any passenger having any of their body parts caught in the win dow. Also do not allow children to operate the mechanical key. It is possible for children and other passengers to get caught in the power window. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency If the vehicle volt battery is discharged The following procedures may be used to start the hybrid sys tem if the vehicle s volt battery is discharged. You can also call any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota autho rized repairer or any reliable repairer or a qualified repair shop. If you have a set of jumper or booster cables and a second vehicle with a volt battery you can jump start your vehicle by following the steps below. Vehicles with an alarm Confirm that the electronic key is being carried. When connecting the jumper or booster cables depending on the situation the alarm may activate and doors locked. P. Open the hood and remove the fuse box cover. Push the tabs in and lift the lid off. Open the exclusive jump start ing terminal cover. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Connect the jumper cables according to the following procedure Connect a positive jumper cable clamp to the exclusive jump starting terminal on your vehicle. Connect the clamp on the other end of the positive cable to the positive battery terminal on the second vehicle. Connect a negative cable clamp to the negative battery termi nal on the second vehicle. Connect the clamp at the other end of the negative cable to a solid stationary unpainted metallic point away from the exclusive jump starting terminal and any moving parts as shown in the illustration. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Start the engine of the second vehicle. Increase the engine speed slightly and maintain at that level for approximately minutes to recharge the volt battery of your vehicle. Open and close any of the doors of your vehicle with the power switch off. Maintain the engine speed of the second vehicle and start the hybrid system of your vehicle by turning the power switch to ON mode. Make sure the READY indicator comes on. If the indicator does not come on contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Once the hybrid system has started remove the jumper cables in the exact reverse order from which they were connected. Close the exclusive jump starting terminal cover and reinstall the fuse box cover to its original position. Once the hybrid system starts have the vehicle inspected at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer as soon as possible. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency Starting the hybrid system when the volt battery is discharged The hybrid system cannot be started by push starting. To prevent volt battery discharge Turn off the headlights and the audio system while the hybrid system is off. Turn off any unnecessary electrical components when the vehicle is running at a low speed for an extended period such as in heavy traffic. When the volt battery is removed or discharged Information stored in the ECU is cleared. When the volt battery is depleted have the vehicle inspected at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Some systems may require initialization. P. When removing the volt battery terminals When the volt battery terminals are removed the information stored in the ECU is cleared. Before removing the volt battery terminals contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Charging the volt battery The electricity stored in the volt battery will discharge gradually even when the vehicle is not in use due to natural discharge and the draining effects of certain electrical appliances. If the vehicle is left for a long time the volt battery may discharge and the hybrid system may be unable to start. The volt battery recharges automatically while the hybrid system is operating. When recharging or replacing the volt battery In some cases it may not be possible to unlock the doors using the smart entry start system when the volt battery is discharged. Use the wire less remote control or the mechanical key to lock or unlock the doors. The hybrid system may not start on the first attempt after the volt battery has recharged but will start normally after the second attempt. This is not a malfunction. The power switch mode is memorized by the vehicle. When the volt bat tery is reconnected the system will return to the mode it was in before the volt battery was discharged. Before disconnecting the volt battery turn the power switch off. If you are unsure what mode the power switch was in before the volt bat tery discharged be especially careful when reconnecting the volt battery. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency When replacing the volt battery Use a Central Degassing type volt battery European Regulations. Use a volt battery that the case size is same as the previous one LN hour rate capacity HR is equivalent Ah or greater and perfor mance rating CCA is equivalent A or greater. cid If the sizes differ the volt battery cannot be properly secured. cid If the hour rate capacity is low even if the time period where the vehi cle is not used is a short time the volt battery may discharge and the hybrid system may not be able to start. Use a volt battery with a handle. If a volt battery without a handle is used removal is more difficult. After replacing firmly attach the follow ing items to the exhaust hole of the volt battery. cid Use the exhaust hose that was attached to the volt battery before replacing and confirm that it is firmly connected to the hole section of the vehicle. cid Use the exhaust hole plug included with the volt battery replaced or the one installed on the battery prior to the replacement. Depending on the volt battery to be replaced the exhaust hole may be plugged. Exhaust hole plug Exhaust hole Exhaust hose Hole section of the vehicle For details consult any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency WARNING When removing the volt battery terminals Always remove the negative terminal first. If the positive terminal con tacts any metal in the surrounding area when the positive terminal is removed a spark may occur leading to a fire in addition to electrical shocks and death or serious injury. Avoiding volt battery fires or explosions Observe the following precautions to prevent accidentally igniting the flam mable gas that may be emitted from the volt battery Make sure each jumper cable is connected to the correct terminal and that it is not unintentionally in contact with any other than the intended terminal. Do not allow the other end of the jumper cable connected to the termi nal to come into contact with any other parts or metal surfaces in the area such as brackets or unpainted metal. Do not allow the and clamps of the jumper cables to come into contact with each other. Do not smoke use matches cigarette lighters or allow open flame near the volt battery. volt battery precautions The volt battery contains poisonous and corrosive acidic electrolyte while related parts contain lead and lead compounds. Observe the following precautions when handling the volt battery When working with the volt battery always wear safety glasses and take care not to allow any battery fluids acid to come into contact with skin clothing or the vehicle body. Do not lean over the volt battery. In the event that battery fluid comes into contact with the skin or eyes immediately wash the affected area with water and seek medical attention. Place a wet sponge or cloth over the affected area until medical attention can be received. Always wash your hands after handling the volt battery support termi nals and other battery related parts. Do not allow children near the volt battery. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency WARNING After recharging the volt battery Have the volt battery inspected at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer as soon as possible. If the volt battery is deteriorating continued use may cause the volt battery to emit a malodorous gas which may be detrimental to the health of passengers. When replacing the volt battery After replacing securely attach the exhaust hose and exhaust hole plug to the exhaust hole of the replaced volt battery. If not properly installed gases hydrogen may leak into the vehicle interior and there is the possi ble danger of the gas igniting and exploding. NOTICE When handling jumper cables When connecting the jumper cables ensure that they do not become entan gled in the cooling fan or belt. To prevent damaging the vehicle The exclusive jump starting terminal is to be used when charging the volt battery from another vehicle in an emergency. It cannot be used to jump start another vehicle. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency If your vehicle overheats The following may indicate that your vehicle is overheating. The needle of the engine coolant temperature gauge P. enters the red zone or a loss of hybrid system power is experi enced. For example the vehicle speed does not increase. Engine Coolant Temp High Stop in a Safe Place See Owner s Manual or Hybrid System Overheated Output Power Reduced is shown on the multi information display. Steam comes out from under the hood. Correction procedures If the needle of the engine coolant temperature gauge enters the red zone or Engine Coolant Temp High Stop in a Safe Place See Owner s Manual is shown on the multi information display Stop the vehicle in a safe place and turn off the air conditioning system and then stop the hybrid system. If you see steam Carefully lift the hood after the steam subsides. If you do not see steam Carefully lift the hood. After the hybrid system has cooled down sufficiently inspect the hoses and radia tor core radiator for any leaks. Radiator Cooling fan If a large amount of coolant leaks immediately contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency The coolant level is satisfac tory if it is between the F and L lines on the reservoir. Reservoir F line L line Radiator cap Add coolant if necessary. Water can be used in an emer gency if coolant is unavailable. Start the hybrid system and turn the air conditioning system on to check that the radiator cooling fan operates and to check for coolant leaks from the radiator or hoses. The fan operates when the air conditioning system is turned on immedi ately after a cold start. Confirm that the fan is operating by checking the fan sound and air flow. If it is difficult to check these turn the air condi tioning system on and off repeatedly. The fan may not operate in freez ing temperatures. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency If the fan is not operating Stop the hybrid system immediately and contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. If the fan is operating Have the vehicle inspected at the nearest any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. If Hybrid System Overheated Output Power Reduced is shown on the multi information display Stop the vehicle in a safe place. Stop the hybrid system and carefully lift the hood. After the hybrid system has cooled down inspect the hoses and radiator core radiator for any leaks. Radiator Cooling fan If a large amount of coolant leaks immediately contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. The coolant level is satisfac tory if it is between the FULL and LOW lines on the reservoir. Reservoir FULL line LOW line CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency Add coolant if necessary. Water can be used in an emer gency if coolant is unavailable. After stopping the hybrid system and waiting for minutes or more start the hybrid system again and check for the multi infor mation display. If the message does not disappear Stop the hybrid system and contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. If the message is not displayed The hybrid system temperature has dropped and the vehicle may be driven normally. However if the message appears again frequently contact any autho rized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency WARNING To prevent an accident or injury when inspecting under the hood of your vehicle Observe the following precautions. Failure to do so may result in serious injury such as burns. If steam is seen coming from under the hood do not open the hood until the steam has subsided. The engine compartment may be very hot. After the hybrid system has been turned off check that the READY indi cator is off. When the hybrid system is operating the gasoline engine may automatically start or the cooling fan may suddenly operate even if the gasoline engine stops. Do not touch or approach rotating parts such as the fan which may lead to fingers or clothing especially a tie a scarf or a muf fler getting caught resulting in serious injury. Do not loosen the radiator cap and the coolant reservoir cap while the hybrid system and radiator are hot. High temperature steam or coolant could spray out. NOTICE When adding engine power control unit coolant Wait until the hybrid system has cooled down before adding engine power control unit coolant. When adding coolant do so slowly. Adding cool coolant to a hot hybrid sys tem too quickly can cause damage to the hybrid system. To prevent damage to the cooling system Observe the following precautions Avoid contaminating the coolant with foreign matter such as sand or dust etc Do not use any coolant additives. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency If the vehicle becomes stuck Carry out the following procedures if the tires spin or the vehicle becomes stuck in mud dirt or snow Stop the hybrid system. Set the parking brake and shift the shift lever to P. Remove the mud snow or sand from around the front wheels. Place wood stones or some other material under the front wheels to help provide traction. Restart the hybrid system. Shift the shift lever to D or R and release the parking brake. Then while exercising caution depress the accelerator pedal. When it is difficult to free the vehicle Press to turn off TRC. WARNING When attempting to free a stuck vehicle If you choose to push the vehicle back and forth to free it make sure the surrounding area is clear to avoid striking other vehicles objects or people. The vehicle may also lunge forward or lunge back suddenly as it becomes free. Use extreme caution. When shifting the shift lever Be careful not to shift the shift lever with the accelerator pedal depressed. This may lead to unexpected rapid acceleration of the vehicle that may cause an accident resulting in death or serious injury. CAMRY HV EE. Steps to take in an emergency NOTICE To avoid damaging the transmission and other components Avoid spinning the front wheels and depressing the accelerator pedal more than necessary. If the vehicle remains stuck even after these procedures are performed the vehicle may require towing to be freed. CAMRY HV EE When trouble arises. Steps to take in an emergency CAMRY HV EE Vehicle specifications. Specifications Maintenance data fuel oil level etc. Fuel information. Customization Customizable features. Items to initialize Items to initialize CAMRY HV EE. Specifications Maintenance data fuel oil level etc. Dimensions Overall length mm. in. Overall width mm. in. Overall height mm. in. Wheelbase mm. in. inch tires mm. in. Front inch tires mm. in. Tread inch tires mm. in. Rear inch tires mm. in. Unladen vehicles Vehicle identification Vehicle identification number The vehicle identification number VIN is the legal identifier for your vehicle. This is the primary identification number for your Toyota. It is used in registering the ownership of your vehicle. On some models this number is stamped on the top left of the instrument panel. CAMRY HV EE. Specifications This number is also on the manufacturer s label. This number is also stamped under the right hand front seat. Engine number The engine number is stamped on the engine block as shown. CAMRY HV EE Vehicle specifications. Specifications Engine Model A A FXS Type cylinder in line cycle gasoline Bore and stroke. x. mm. x. in. Displacement cm. cu.in. Valve clearance Automatic adjustment Fuel When you find these types of fuel label at the gas station use only the fuel with one of the following labels. Fuel type EU area Unleaded gasoline conforming to European stan dard EN only Except EU area Unleaded gasoline only Research octane or higher number Fuel tank capacity L. gal Imp. gal. Reference Electric motor traction motor Type Permanent magnet synchronous motor Maximum output kW Maximum torque N cid m. kgf cid m ft cid lbf CAMRY HV EE. Specifications Hybrid battery traction battery Type Nickel metal hydride battery Voltage. V module Capacity. Ah HR Quantity modules Overall voltage. V Lubrication system Oil capacity Drain and refill Reference With filter. L. qt Imp. qt. Without filter. L. qt Imp. qt. The engine oil capacity is a reference quantity to be used when changing the engine oil. Warm up the engine and turn off the hybrid system wait more than minutes and check the oil level on the dipstick. Engine oil selection Toyota Genuine Motor Oil is used in your Toyota vehicle. Toyota recommends the use of approved Toyota Genuine Motor Oil. Another motor oil of matching quality can also be used. Oil grade W API grade SN Resource Conserving or SN PLUS Resource Con serving multigrade engine oil W W and W API grade SL Energy Conserving SM Energy Conserving SN Resource Conserving or SN PLUS Resource Conserving or ILSAC multigrade engine oil W API grade SL SM SN or SN PLUS multigrade engine oil CAMRY HV EE Vehicle specifications. Specifications Recommended viscosity SAE SAE W is filled into your Toyota vehicle at manufactur Preferred ing and the best choice for good fuel economy and good starting in cold weather. If SAE W oil is not avail able SAE W oil may be used. However it should be replaced with SAE W at the next oil change. Temperature range anticipated If you use SAE W or a before next oil change higher viscosity engine oil in extremely low temperatures the engine may become difficult to start so SAE W W or W engine oil is recom mended. Oil viscosity W is explained here as an example cid The W in W indicates the characteristic of the oil which allows cold startability. Oils with a lower value before the W allow for easier starting of the engine in cold weather. cid The in W indicates the viscosity characteristic of the oil when the oil is at high temperature. An oil with a higher viscosity one with a higher value may be better suited if the vehicle is operated at high speeds or under extreme load conditions. CAMRY HV EE. Specifications How to read oil container labels Either or both API registered marks are added to some oil contain ers to help you select the oil you should use. API Service Symbol Top portion API SERVICE SN means the oil quality designation by American Petroleum Institute API. Center portion SAE W means the SAE viscosity grade. Lower portion Resource Conserving means that the oil has fuel saving and environmental protection capabilities. ILSAC Certification Mark The International Lubricant Specification Advisory Committee ILSAC Certification Mark is displayed on the front of the container. CAMRY HV EE Vehicle specifications. Specifications Cooling system Gasoline engine Capacity. L. qt Imp. qt. Reference Power control unit. L. qt Imp. qt. Use either of the following cid Toyota Super Long Life Coolant cid Similar high quality ethylene glycol based non sili Coolant type cate non amine non nitrite and non borate cool ant with long life hybrid organic acid technology Do not use plain water alone. Ignition system Spark plug Make DENSO FC HR Q Gap. mm. in. NOTICE Iridium tipped spark plugs Use only iridium tipped spark plugs. Do not adjust spark plug gap. CAMRY HV EE. Specifications Electrical system volt battery Specific voltage reading at. V or higher C F If the voltage is lower than the standard value charge the battery. When checking the voltage after turning the power switch off wait for seconds with the high beam headlights illuminated then turn the high beam headlights off and check the voltage. Charging rates A max. Transmission Fluid capacity. L. qt Imp. qt. Fluid type Toyota Genuine ATF WS The fluid capacity is a reference quantity. If replacement is necessary contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. NOTICE Transmission fluid type Using transmission fluid other than Toyota Genuine ATF WS may ulti mately damage the transmission of your vehicle. CAMRY HV EE Vehicle specifications. Specifications Brakes Pedal clearance mm. in. Pedal free play mm in. Brake pad wear limit. mm. in. SAE J or FMVSS No. DOT Fluid type SAE J or FMVSS No. DOT Minimum pedal clearance when depressed with a force of N kgf lbf while the hybrid system operating. Steering Free play Less than mm. in. Tires and wheels inch tires Tire size R W Tire inflation Front wheel kPa Rear wheel kPa pressure kgf cm or bar psi kgf cm or bar psi Recommended cold tire infla tion pressure Wheel size J Wheel nut torque N cid m. kgf cid m ft cid lbf CAMRY HV EE. Specifications inch tires Tire size R W Front wheel kPa Rear wheel kPa Tire inflation pressure kgf cm or bar psi kgf cm or bar psi Recommended cold tire inflation pressure Wheel size J Wheel nut torque N cid m. kgf cid m ft cid lbf Tire size R Y Front wheel kPa Rear wheel kPa Tire inflation pressure kgf cm or bar psi kgf cm or bar psi Recommended cold tire inflation pressure Wheel size J Wheel nut torque N cid m. kgf cid m ft cid lbf Compact spare tire Tire size T D M Spare tire inflation pressure kPa. kgf cm or bar psi Recommended cold tire inflation pressure Wheel size T Wheel nut torque N cid m. kgf cid m ft cid lbf CAMRY HV EE Vehicle specifications. Specifications Light bulbs Light bulbs W Type Front turn signal lights bulb type A Exterior Rear turn signal lights bulb type A Back up lights bulb type B Door courtesy lights B Interior Vanity lights B Trunk light B A Wedge base bulbs amber B Wedge base bulbs clear Light bulbs not listed in this table are LED bulbs. CAMRY HV EE. Specifications Fuel information When you find these types of fuel label at the gas station use only the fuel with one of the following labels. EU area You must only use unleaded gasoline conforming to European standard EN. Select unleaded gasoline with a Research Octane Number of or higher for optimum engine performance. Except EU area You must only use unleaded gasoline. Select unleaded gasoline with a Research Octane Number of or higher for optimum engine performance. Use of ethanol blended gasoline in a gasoline engine Toyota allows the use of ethanol blended gasoline where the ethanol content is up to. Make sure that the ethanol blended gasoline to be used has a Research Octane Number that follows the above. If your engine knocks Consult any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. You may occasionally notice light knocking for a short time while accelerat ing or driving uphill. This is normal and there is no need for concern. CAMRY HV EE Vehicle specifications. Specifications NOTICE Notice on fuel quality Do not use improper fuels. If improper fuels are used the engine will be damaged. Do not use gasoline with metallic additives for example manganese iron or lead otherwise it may cause damage on your engine or emission con trol system. Do not add aftermarket fuel additives which contain metallic additives. EU area Bioethanol fuel sold under names such as E or E and fuel containing a large amount of ethanol should not be used. The use of these fuels will damage the vehicle s fuel system. In case of any doubt ask any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Except EU area Bioethanol fuel sold under names such as E or E and fuel containing a large amount of ethanol should not be used. Your vehicle can use gasoline mixed with max ethanol. The use of fuel with more than ethanol content E will damage the vehicle s fuel system. You must ensure that refueling is carried out only from a source where fuel specification and quality can be guaranteed. In case of any doubt ask any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Do not use the methanol blended gasoline such as M M M. The use of gasoline containing methanol may cause engine damage or failure. CAMRY HV EE. Customization Customizable features Your vehicle includes a variety of electronic features that can be personalized to suit your preferences. The settings of these fea tures can be changed using the multi information display on the audio system screen or at any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. Customizing vehicle features When customizing vehicle features ensure that the vehicle is parked in a safe place with the shift lever in P and the parking brake set. Changing on the audio system screen Press the SETUP button. Select General or Vehicle on the Setup screen. Various setting can be changed. Refer to the list of settings that can be changed for details. Changing using the multi information display P. CAMRY HV EE Vehicle specifications. Customization Customizable features Some function settings are changed simultaneously with other func tions being customized. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer for further details. Settings that can be changed on the audio system screen Settings that can be changed by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer Definition of symbols O Available Not available Gauges meters and multi information display P. Function Default setting Customized setting km km L Units km L km O miles MPG On when the vehicle is Convenience services On stopped O O Suggestion function Off The default setting varies according to country. CAMRY HV EE. Customization Door lock P. Function Default setting Customized setting Driver s door All doors Unlocking using the unlocked in one step unlocked in one O mechanical key all doors unlocked in step two steps Speed linked door lock ing function On Off O O Shift position linked door Off On O O locking function Shift position linked door unlocking function Off On O O Driver s door linked door unlocking function Off On O O Locking unlocking of the trunk when all doors are On Off O locked unlocked If equipped Smart entry start system and wireless remote control P. Function Default setting Customized setting Operation signal On Off O O Emergency flashers Time elapsed before seconds automatic door lock function is activated if seconds O door is not opened after seconds being unlocked Open door warning On Off O buzzer CAMRY HV EE Vehicle specifications. Customization Smart entry start system P. Function Default setting Customized setting Smart entry start sys On Off O O tem Smart door unlocking All the doors Driver s door O O Time elapsed before unlocking all the door when gripping and hold Off seconds O ing the driver s door han dle Number of consecutive times As many as desired O door lock operations Wireless remote control P. Function Default setting Customized setting Wireless remote control On Off O Driver s door All doors unlocked in one step Unlocking operation unlocked in one O O all doors unlocked in step two steps One short press Push twice Trunk unlocking opera Press and hold O tion short Press and hold long Off CAMRY HV EE. Customization Power windows P. Function Default setting Customized setting Mechanical key linked Off On O operation Wireless remote control Off On O linked operation Wireless remote control linked operation signal On Off O buzzer Steering wheel P. Function Default setting Customized setting Telescopic only Auto tilt away function Tilt only Tilt telescopic O O Off Vehicles with power adjustment steering wheel Automatic light control system P. Function Default setting Customized setting Light sensor sensitivity Standard to O O Toyota parking assist sensor P. Function Default setting Customized setting Buzzer volume to O BSM Blind Spot Monitor P. Function Default setting Customized setting Outside rear view mirror Bright Dim O indicator brightness If equipped CAMRY HV EE Vehicle specifications. Customization RCTA Rear Crossing Traffic Alert P. Function Default setting Customized setting Buzzer volume to O If equipped Automatic air conditioning system P. Function Default setting Customized setting Switching between out side air and recirculated Auto Manual O O air mode linked to AUTO switch operation A C auto switch opera Auto Manual O O tion Illumination P. Function Default setting Customized setting Off Time elapsed before seconds. seconds O O lights turn off seconds Operation after the On Off O power switch turned off Operation when the On Off O doors are unlocked Operation when you approach the vehicle On Off O with the electronic key on your person Footwell lights On Off O Inside door handle lights On Off O CAMRY HV EE. Customization WARNING During customization As the hybrid system needs to be operating during customization ensure that the vehicle is parked in a place with adequate ventilation. In a closed area such as a garage exhaust gases including harmful carbon monoxide CO may collect and enter the vehicle. This may lead to death or a serious health hazard. NOTICE During customization To prevent volt battery discharge ensure that the hybrid system is oper ating while customizing features. CAMRY HV EE Vehicle specifications. Items to initialize Items to initialize The following items must be initialized for normal system opera tion after such cases as the volt battery being reconnected or maintenance being performed on the vehicle Item When to initialize Reference cid When the tire inflation pres sure is changed such as when changing traveling speed or load weight cid When the tire inflation pres Tire pressure warning sys sure is changed such as P. tem when the tire size is changed cid When rotating the tires cid After performing the trans mitter ID code registration procedure Intelligent Clearance Sonar cid After reconnecting or chang P. ICS ing the volt battery If equipped CAMRY HV EE Index What to do if Troubleshooting Alphabetical index Refer to the Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual for information regarding the equipment listed below. cid Navigation system cid Audio visual system cid Toyota parking assist monitor CAMRY HV EE What to do if Troubleshooting What to do if Troubleshooting If you have a problem check the following before contacting any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. The doors cannot be locked unlocked opened or closed You lose your keys If you lose your mechanical keys new genuine mechanical keys can be made by any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer. P. If you lose your electronic keys the risk of vehicle theft increases signifi cantly. Contact any authorized Toyota retailer or Toyota authorized repairer or any reliable repairer immediately. P. The doors cannot be locked or unlocked Is the key battery weak or depleted? P. Is the power switch in ON mode? When locking the doors turn the power switch off. P. Is the electronic key left inside the vehicle? When locking the doors make sure that you have the electronic key on your person. The function may not operate properly due to the condition of the radio wave. P. The rear door cannot be opened Is the child protector lock set? The rear door cannot be opened from inside the vehicle when the lock is set. Open the rear door from outside and then unlock the child protector lock. P. The trunk lid is closed with the electronic key left inside The function to prevent the electronic key from being left inside the trunk will operate and you can open the trunk as usual. Take the key out from the trunk. P. CAMRY HV EEWhat to do if Troubleshooting If you think something is wrong The hybrid system does not start Did you press the power switch while firmly depressing the brake pedal? P. Is the shift lever in P? P. Is the electronic key anywhere detectable inside the vehicle? P. Is the steering wheel unlocked? P. Is the electronic key battery weak or depleted? In this case the hybrid system can be started in a temporary way. P. Is the volt battery discharged? P. The shift lever cannot be shifted from P even if you depress the brake pedal Is the power switch in ON mode? If you cannot release the shift lever by depressing the brake pedal with the power switch in ON mode. P. The steering wheel cannot be turned after the hybrid system is stopped It is locked automatically to prevent theft of the vehicle. P. The windows do not open or close by operating the power window switches Is the window lock switch pressed? The power window except for the one at the driver s seat cannot be oper ated if the window lock switch is pressed. P. The power switch is turned off automatically The auto power off function will be operated if the vehicle is left in ACCES SORY or ON mode the hybrid system is not operating for a period of time. P. CAMRY HV EE What to do if Troubleshooting A warning buzzer sounds during driving The seat belt reminder light is flashing Are the driver and the front passenger wearing the seat belts? P. The parking brake indicator is on Is the parking brake released? P. Depending on the situation other types of warning buzzer may also sound. P. An alarm is activated and the horn sounds vehicles with an alarm Did anyone inside the vehicle open a door during setting the alarm? The sensor detects it and the alarm sounds. P. Do one of the following to stop the alarm cid Unlock the doors or open the trunk using the entry function or wireless remote control. cid Start the hybrid system. A warning buzzer sounds when leaving the vehicle Is the message displayed on the multi information display? Check the message on the multi information display. P. A warning light turns on or a warning message is displayed When a warning light turns on or a warning message is displayed refer to P CAMRY HV EEWhat to do if Troubleshooting When a problem has occurred If you have a flat tire Vehicles with an emergency tire puncture repair kit Stop the vehicle in a safe place and repair the flat tire temporarily with the emergency tire punc ture repair kit. P. Vehicles with spare tire Stop the vehicle in a safe place and replace the flat tire with the spare tire. P. The vehicle becomes stuck Try the procedure for when the vehicle becomes stuck in mud dirt or snow. P. CAMRY HV EE Alphabetical index Alphabetical index A Side airbag precautions A C Side and curtain shield Air conditioning filter airbags operating Automatic air conditions conditioning system Side and curtain shield ABS airbags precautions Anti lock Brake System SRS airbags Warning light SRS warning light Air conditioning filter Alarm Air conditioning system Antennas Air conditioning filter smart entry start Automatic air system conditioning system Anti lock Brake System Airbag manual on off ABS system Warning light Airbags Approach warning Airbag manual on off Armrest system Assist grips Airbag operating conditions Audio visual system Airbag precautions for Automatic air conditioning your child system Correct driving posture Air conditioning filter Curtain shield airbag Automatic headlight leveling operating conditions system Curtain shield airbag Automatic High Beam precautions Automatic light control General airbag precautions system Locations of airbags AUX port Modification and disposal Auxiliary boxes of airbags Side airbag operating conditions CAMRY HV EEAlphabetical index B Brightness control Back up lights Instrument panel light Replacing light bulb control Wattage BSM Blind Spot Monitor Battery volt battery Blind Spot Monitor Battery checking function If the volt battery is Rear Crossing Traffic Alert discharged function Preparing and checking before winter C Replacing Care Battery traction battery Aluminum wheels Hybrid battery Exterior traction battery Interior air intake vent Seat belts Blind Spot Monitor BSM CD player Blind Spot Monitor Chains function Child restraint system Rear Crossing Traffic Alert Child seats definition function Child seats installation Bluetooth Installing a CRS to Bottle holders the passenger seat Brake Installing CRS with ISOFIX Brake Hold lower anchorage Fluid Installing CRS with Parking brake seat belts Warning light Installing CRS with Brake assist top strap Brake Hold Warning light Brake override system Break in tips Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. CAMRY HV EE Alphabetical index Child safety Curtain shield airbags volt battery Customizable features precautions Airbag precautions D Child restraint system Daytime running light How your child should wear system the seat belt Defogger Installing child restraints Outside rear view Power window lock switch mirrors Power window precautions Rear window Rear door child protectors Windshield Removed electronic key Dimensions battery precautions Display Seat belt precautions Dynamic radar Seat heater precautions cruise control with Trunk precautions full speed range Child protectors LDA Lane Departure Alert Cleaning with steering control Aluminum wheels Multi information display Exterior Warning messages Interior Do it yourself maintenance Seat belts Door courtesy lights Clock Location Coat hooks Wattage Condenser Door lock Console box Doors Consumption Key screen Smart entry start Coolant system Capacity Wireless remote control Checking Doors Preparing and checking Automatic door locking before winter and unlocking systems Cooling system Door lock Hybrid system Outside rear view mirrors overheating Rear door child protector Cruise control Side doors Dynamic radar Side windows cruise control with Drive start control full speed range Driver s seat belt Cup holders reminder light CAMRY HV EEAlphabetical index Driving Electronic key Break in tips Battery saving function Correct posture If the electronic key does Driving mode select not operate properly switches Replacing the battery Hybrid vehicle driving tips Emergency flashers Procedures Emergency in case of Winter drive tips If a warning buzzer DVD player sounds Dynamic radar If a warning light turns on cruise control with If a warning message full speed range is displayed If the volt battery is E discharged If the electronic key does eCall not operate properly ECO Accelerator Guidance If the hybrid system Eco drive mode will not start Eco friendly driving If the vehicle is trapped in information rising water Eco guide If you have a flat tire Eco score If you lose your keys EDR Event data recorder If you think something is Electric motor wrong traction motor If your vehicle becomes Electric Power Steering stuck EPS If your vehicle has to be Warning light stopped in an emergency If your vehicle needs to be towed If your vehicle overheats Energy monitor Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. CAMRY HV EE Alphabetical index Engine Fluid ACCESSORY mode Brake Compartment Hybrid transmission Engine switch Washer Hood Fog lights How to start the Replacing light bulbs hybrid system Switch Identification number Front fog lights If your vehicle has to be Replacing light bulbs stopped in an Switch emergency Front interior light Ignition switch Front passenger s seat belt power switch reminder light Overheating Front personal lights Power switch Front position lights Engine coolant Light switch Capacity Replacing light bulbs Checking Front seats Preparing and checking Adjustment before winter Cleaning Engine coolant temperature Correct driving posture gauge Head restraints Engine oil Seat heaters Capacity Front turn signal lights Checking Replacing light bulbs Preparing and checking Turn signal lever before winter Wattage Engine switch Fuel EPS Capacity Electric Power Steering Fuel gauge Warning light Information EV drive mode Refueling Event data recorder EDR Type Exclusive jump starting Warning light terminal Fuel consumption Fuel filler door F Refueling When the fuel filler door Flat tire cannot be opened Floor mats Fuses CAMRY HV EEAlphabetical index G Hybrid system Gauges Emergency shut off Glove box system Grocery bag hooks Energy monitor consumption screen EV drive mode H High voltage components Hands free system Hybrid System Indicator for cellular phone Hybrid system precautions Head restraints Hybrid vehicle driving tips Head up display If the hybrid system Headlight cleaners will not start Headlights Overheating Automatic headlight Power ignition switch leveling Starting the hybrid system Automatic High Beam Hybrid System Indicator Light switch Hybrid transmission Replacing light bulbs If the shift lever cannot Heaters be shifted from P Automatic air S mode conditioning system Outside rear view I mirrors Seat heaters ICS Intelligent Clearance High mounted stoplight Sonar Replacing Indicator High voltage components Warning light Hill start assist control Warning messages Hood Identification Hooks Engine Coat hooks Vehicle Grocery bag hooks Ignition switch Retaining hooks floor mat power switch Horn Illuminated entry system HUD Head up display Immobilizer system Hybrid battery Indicators traction battery Initialization Hybrid battery Intelligent Clearance traction battery Sonar air intake vent Items to initialize Tire pressure warning system Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. CAMRY HV EE Alphabetical index Inside rear view mirror Knee airbag Instrument panel light control L Intelligent Clearance Lane Departure Alert with Sonar ICS steering control LDA Indicator Language multi Warning light information display Warning messages LDA Lane Departure Alert Interior lights with steering control Switch Lever Wattage Auxiliary catch lever ISOFIX lower anchorage Hood lock release lever Shift lever J Tilt and telescopic steering Jack lock release lever Positioning a floor jack Turn signal lever Vehicle equipped Wiper lever jack License plate lights Jack handle Light switch Jam protection function Replacing light bulbs Power windows Light bulbs Replacing K Wattage Lights Keyless entry Automatic High Beam Smart entry start Daytime running light system system Wireless remote Fog light switch control Headlight switch Keys Illuminated entry system Battery saving function Interior lights Electronic key Interior lights list If the electronic key does Personal lights not operate properly Replacing light bulbs If you lose your keys Trunk light Key number plate Turn signal lever Keyless entry Vanity lights Mechanical key Wattage Power switch Lock steering column Replacing the battery Warning buzzer Wireless remote control CAMRY HV EEAlphabetical index M MP disc Maintenance Multi information display Do it yourself maintenance Dynamic radar Hybrid battery cruise control with traction battery full speed range air intake vent Eco friendly driving Maintenance data information Maintenance Language requirements LDA Lane Departure Alert Malfunction indicator lamp with steering control Master warning light Outside temperature Meter PCS Pre Collision Head up display System Indicators RSA Road Sign Assist Instrument panel light Settings control Suggestion function Meters Warning messages Multi information display Settings N Warning lights Navigation system Warning messages Mirrors Inside rear view mirror O Outside rear view mirror Odometer defoggers Oil Outside rear view mirrors Engine oil Vanity mirrors Opener Fuel filler door Hood Trunk Outside rear view mirrors Adjusting and folding Blind Spot Monitor BSM Outside rear view mirror defoggers Outside temperature display Overheating Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. CAMRY HV EE Alphabetical index P Rear fog light Parking brake Replacing light bulb Parking brake engaged Switch warning buzzer Rear personal lights message Rear seat center armrest Warning light light PCS Pre Collision System Rear seats Warning light Folding down Personal lights Reclining Power control unit Rear side marker lights Power control unit coolant Light switch Capacity Replacing light bulbs Checking Rear turn signal lights Preparing and checking Replacing light bulbs before winter Turn signal lever Power outlet Wattage Power steering Rear view mirror Electric power steering Inside rear view mirror system Outside rear view mirrors Warning light Rear window defogger Power switch Refueling Power windows Capacity Door lock linked window Fuel types operation Opening the fuel tank cap Jam protection function When the fuel filler door Operation cannot be opened Window lock switch Replacing Pre Collision System Electronic key battery PCS Fuses Warning light Light bulbs Tires Road accident cautions R Road Sign Assist RSA Radar cruise control RSA Road Sign Assist dynamic radar cruise control with full speed range Radiator Radio Rear Crossing Traffic Alert CAMRY HV EEAlphabetical index S Seats Seat belt reminder light Adjustment Seat belts Adjustment Adjusting the seat belt precautions Child restraint system Child seats child restraint installation system installation Cleaning and maintaining Cleaning the seat belt Folding down the rear Emergency Locking seatbacks Retractor Head restraints How to wear your seat belt Properly sitting in the seat How your child should wear Seat heaters the seat belt Sensor Pregnant women proper Automatic headlight seat belt use system Reminder light and buzzer Automatic High Beam Seat belt pretensioners system SRS warning light Camera sensor Seat heaters Inside rear view mirror LDA Lane Departure Alert with steering control Radar sensor Rain sensing windshield wipers RSA Road Sign Assist Toyota parking assist sensor Service plug Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. CAMRY HV EE Alphabetical index Shift lever Steering wheel Hybrid transmission Adjustment If the shift lever cannot Meter control switches be shifted from P Stoplights S mode Replacing light bulbs Shift lock system Storage feature Side airbags Storage precautions Side marker lights Stuck Light switch If the vehicle becomes Replacing light bulbs stuck Side mirrors Sun visors Adjusting and folding Sunshade BSM Blind Spot Monitor Rear door sunshade Heaters Rear sunshade Side turn signal lights Switches Replacing light bulbs Airbag manual on off Turn signal lever switch Smart entry start system Automatic High Beam Antenna location switch Entry functions Brake hold switch Starting the hybrid system Cruise control switch Snow tires Door lock switches Spare tire Driving mode select Inflation pressure switches Storage location Emergency flasher Spark plug switch Specifications EV drive mode switch Speedometer Sport mode Steering lock Column lock release CAMRY HV EEAlphabetical index Fog light switch T Fuel door opener switch Tachometer Ignition switch Tail lights LDA Lane Departure Alert Light switch with steering control Replacing light bulbs switch Talk switch Light switch Telephone switch Meter control switches Theft deterrent system ODO TRIP switch Alarm Outside rear view mirror Immobilizer system switches Tire inflation pressure Parking brake switch Maintenance data Power door lock switch Warning light Power switch Tire pressure warning system Power window switches Initializing Rear window and outside Installing tire pressure rear view mirror warning valve and defoggers switch transmitters Seat heater switches Registering ID codes Talk switch Warning light Telephone switch Tires Tilt and telescopic steering Chains lock release switch Checking Trunk opener switch Emergency tire puncture Vehicle to vehicle repair kit distance switch If you have a flat tire VSC OFF switch Inflation pressure Window lock switch Replacing Windshield wiper and Rotating tires washer switch Size Wireless charger switch Snow tires Spare tire Tire pressure warning system Warning light Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. CAMRY HV EE Alphabetical index Tools TRC Traction Control Top strap Trip information Top tether anchorage Trip meters Towing Trunk Emergency towing Grocery bag hooks Towing eyelet Smart entry start Trailer towing system Toyota parking assist Trunk light monitor Trunk opener Toyota parking Wireless remote control assist sensor Trunk light Toyota Safety Sense Trunk light Automatic High Beam Wattage Dynamic radar Turn signal lights cruise control with Replacing light bulbs full speed range Turn signal lever LDA Lane Departure Alert Wattage with steering control PCS Pre Collision U System USB charging ports RSA Road Sign Assist USB memory Traction Control TRC USB port Traction battery hybrid battery V Traction motor electric motor Vanity lights Trailer towing Wattage Transmission Vanity mirrors Driving mode select Vanity lights switches Vehicle data recording Hybrid transmission Vehicle identification If the shift lever cannot number be shifted from P Vehicle Stability Control S mode VSC VSC Vehicle Stability Control CAMRY HV EEAlphabetical index W Warning messages Warning buzzers Washer Approach warning Checking Downshifting Preparing and checking Electric power steering before winter system Switch Lane departure alert Washing and waxing function Wheels Light reminder Replacing Open door Size Open hood Window glasses Open trunk Front side windows Parking brake Power windows Pre collision warning Window lock switch RSA Road Sign Assist Windows Seat belt reminder Power windows Vehicle sway warning Rear window defogger Warning lights Washer ABS Windshield wipers Brake hold operated Rain sensing windshield indicator wipers Brake system Winter driving tips Electric power steering Wireless charger Intelligent Clearance Wireless remote control Sonar Battery Saving Function LDA indicator Locking Unlocking Low fuel level Replacing the battery Malfunction indicator lamp WMA disc Master warning light Parking brake indicator PCS warning light Seat belt reminder light Slip indicator SRS Tire pressure Refer to Navigation and multimedia system Owner s manual. CAMRY HV EE GAS STATION INFORMATION Auxiliary catch lever Trunk opener Fuel filler door P. P. P. Hood lock release Fuel filler Tire inflation pressure lever door opener P. P. P. Fuel tank capacity L. gal Imp. gal. Reference Fuel type P. Cold tire inflation P. pressure Engine oil capacity Drain and refill P. reference Toyota Genuine Motor Oil or equivalent Engine oil type P. CAMRY HV EE