GT I User Manual www.samsung.comAbout this manual This device provides high quality mobile communication and entertainment using Samsung s high standards and technological expertise. This user manual is specially designed to detail the device s functions and features. Please read this manual before using the device to ensure safe and proper use. Descriptions are based on the device s default settings. Images and screenshots may differ in appearance from the actual product. Content may differ from the final product or from software provided by service providers or carriers and is subject to change without prior notice. For the latest version of the manual refer to the Samsung website www.samsung.com. Content high quality content that requires high CPU and RAM usage will affect the overall performance of the device. Applications related to the content may not work properly depending on the device s specifications and the environment that it is used in. Available features and additional services may vary by device software or service provider. Applications and their functions may vary by country region or hardware specifications. Samsung is not liable for performance issues caused by applications from any provider other than Samsung. Samsung is not liable for performance issues or incompatibilities caused by edited registry settings or modified operating system software. Attempting to customise the operating system may cause the device or applications to work improperly. Software sound sources wallpapers images and other media provided with this device are licensed for limited use. Extracting and using these materials for commercial or other purposes is an infringement of copyright laws. Users are entirely responsible for illegal use of media. You may incur additional charges for data services such as messaging uploading and downloading auto syncing or using location services. To avoid additional charges select an appropriate data tariff plan. For details contact your service provider. About this manual Default applications that come with the device are subject to updates and may no longer be supported without prior notice. If you have questions about an application provided with the device contact a Samsung Service Centre. For user installed applications contact service providers. Modifying the device s operating system or installing softwares from unofficial sources may result in device malfunctions and data corruption or loss. These actions are violations of your Samsung licence agreement and will void your warranty. Instructional icons Warning situations that could cause injury to yourself or others Caution situations that could cause damage to your device or other equipment Note notes usage tips or additional information Copyright Copyright Samsung Electronics This guide is protected under international copyright laws. No part of this guide may be reproduced distributed translated or transmitted in any form or by any means electronic or mechanical including photocopying recording or storing in any information storage and retrieval system without the prior written permission of Samsung Electronics. About this manual Trademarks SAMSUNG and the SAMSUNG logo are registered trademarks of Samsung Electronics. The Android logo Google Google Maps Google Mail YouTube Google Play Store and Google Talk are trademarks of Google Inc. Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. worldwide. Wi Fi Wi Fi Protected Setup Wi Fi Direct Wi Fi CERTIFIED and the Wi Fi logo are registered trademarks of the Wi Fi Alliance. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. DivX DivX Certified and associated logos are trademarks of Rovi Corporation or its subsidiaries and are used under licence. ABOUT DIVX VIDEO DivX is a digital video format created by DivX LLC a subsidiary of Rovi Corporation. This is an official DivX Certified device that has passed rigorous testing to verify that it plays DivX video. Visit www.divx.com for more information and software tools to convert your files into DivX videos. ABOUT DIVX VIDEO ON DEMAND This DivX Certified device must be registered in order to play purchased DivX Video on Demand VOD movies. To obtain your registration code locate the DivX VOD section in your device setup menu. Go to vod.divx.com for more information on how to complete your registration. DivX Certified to play DivX video up to HD p including premium content. Table of Contents Getting started Locked screen Using applications Device layout Applications screen Buttons Help Package contents Entering text Installing the SIM or USIM card and Connecting to a Wi Fi network battery Setting up accounts Charging the battery Transferring files Inserting a memory card Securing the device Turning the device on and off Upgrading the device Holding the device Adjusting the volume Switching to silent mode Communication Phone Basics Contacts Messaging Indicator icons Email Using the touch screen Google Mail Control motions Talk Palm motions Google Air Gesture Messenger Air View ChatON Samsung Smart Pause Samsung Smart Scroll Activating glove mode Web network Activating Multi Window Notifications Internet Quick setting panel Chrome Home screen Table of Contents Bluetooth Dropbox Screen Mirroring Cloud Samsung Link Clock Group Play Calculator NFC S Health S Beam S Translator WatchON Voice Recorder S Voice Google Media Voice Search My Files Music Downloads Camera TripAdvisor Gallery Optical Reader Story Album Video YouTube Travel local Flipboard Maps Local Application media stores Navigation Play Store Samsung Hub Settings Samsung Apps Play Books About Settings Play Movies Connections Play Music My device Play Magazines Accounts More Utilities Troubleshooting S Memo S Planner Getting started Device layout Light sensor Proximity Gesture sensor Notification light Front camera Earpiece Power button Touch screen Home button Back button Menu button Microphone Multipurpose jack Microphone for IrLED speakerphone GPS antenna Headset jack Flash Rear camera Volume button Back cover Speaker Main antenna Getting started The microphone at the top of the device is active only when you use the speakerphone or take videos. Do not cover the antenna area with your hands or other objects. This may cause connectivity problems or drain the battery. Do not use a screen protector. This causes sensor malfunctions. Do not allow water to contact the touch screen. The touch screen may malfunction in humid conditions or when exposed to water. Buttons Button Function Press and hold to turn the device on or off. Press and hold for more than seconds to reset the device if Power it has fatal errors or hang ups or freezes. Press to lock or unlock the device. The device goes into lock mode when the touch screen turns off. Tap to open a list of options available for the current screen. Menu Tap and hold on the Home screen to launch Google search. Press to return to the Home screen. Home Press and hold to open the list of recent applications. Back Tap to return to the previous screen. Volume Press to adjust the device volume. Getting started Package contents Check the product box for the following items Device Battery Quick start guide The items supplied with the device and any available accessories may vary depending on the region or service provider. The supplied items are designed only for this device and may not be compatible with other devices. Appearances and specifications are subject to change without prior notice. You can purchase additional accessories from your local Samsung retailer. Make sure they are compatible with the device before purchase. Other accessories may not be compatible with your device. Use only Samsung approved accessories. Malfunctions caused by using unapproved accessories are not covered by the warranty service. Availability of all accessories is subject to change depending entirely on manufacturing companies. For more information about available accessories refer to the Samsung website. Getting started Installing the SIM or USIM card and battery Insert the SIM or USIM card provided by the mobile telephone service provider and the included battery. Only microSIM cards work with the device. Some LTE services may not be available depending on the service provider. For details about service availability contact your service provider. Remove the back cover. Be careful not to damage your fingernails when you remove the back cover. Do not bend or twist the back cover excessively. Doing so may damage the cover. Insert the SIM or USIM card with the gold coloured contacts facing downwards. Getting started Push the SIM or USIM card into the slot until it locks in place. Do not insert a memory card into the SIM card slot. If a memory card happens to be lodged in the SIM card slot take the device to a Samsung Service Centre to remove the memory card. Use caution not to lose or let others use the SIM or USIM card. Samsung is not responsible for any damages or inconveniences caused by lost or stolen cards. Insert the battery. Replace the back cover. Getting started Removing the SIM or USIM card and battery Remove the back cover. Pull out the battery. Push the SIM or USIM card until it disengages from the device and then pull it out. Getting started Charging the battery Use the charger to charge the battery before using it for the first time. A computer can be also used to charge the device by connecting them via the USB cable. Use only Samsung approved chargers batteries and cables. Unapproved chargers or cables can cause the battery to explode or damage the device. When the battery power is low the device emits a warning tone and displays a low battery power message. If the battery is completely discharged the device cannot be turned on immediately when the charger is connected. Allow a depleted battery to charge for a few minutes before turning on the device. If you use multiple applications at once network applications or applications that need a connection to another device the battery will drain quickly. To avoid disconnecting from the network or losing power during a data transfer always use these applications after fully charging the battery. Charging with the charger Connect the USB cable to the USB power adaptor and then plug the end of the USB cable into the multipurpose jack. Connecting the charger improperly may cause serious damage to the device. Any damage caused by misuse is not covered by the warranty. Getting started The device can be used while it is charging but it may take longer to fully charge the battery. If the device receives an unstable power supply while charging the touch screen may not function. If this happens unplug the charger from the device. While charging the device may heat up. This is normal and should not affect the device s lifespan or performance. If the battery gets hotter than usual the charger may stop charging. If the device is not charging properly take the device and the charger to a Samsung Service Centre. After fully charging disconnect the device from the charger. First unplug the charger from the device and then unplug it from the electric socket. Do not remove the battery before removing the charger. This may damage the device. To save energy unplug the charger when not in use. The charger does not have a power switch so you must unplug the charger from the electric socket when not in use to avoid wasting power. The device should remain close to the electric socket while charging. Checking the battery charge status When you charge the battery while the device is off the following icons will show the current battery charge status Charging Fully charged Getting started Reducing the battery consumption Your device provides options that help you save battery power. By customising these options and deactivating features in the background you can use the device longer between charges When you are not using the device switch to sleep mode by pressing the Power button. Close unnecessary applications with the task manager. Deactivate the Bluetooth feature. Deactivate the Wi Fi feature. Deactivate auto syncing of applications. Decrease the backlight time. Decrease the brightness of the display. Inserting a memory card Your device accepts memory cards with maximum capacities of GB. Depending on the memory card manufacturer and type some memory cards may not be compatible with your device. Some memory cards may not be fully compatible with the device. Using an incompatible card may damage the device or the memory card or corrupt the data stored in it. Use caution to insert the memory card right side up. The device supports the FAT and the exFAT file systems for memory cards. When inserting a card formatted in a different file system the device asks to reformat the memory card. Frequent writing and erasing of data shortens the lifespan of memory cards. When inserting a memory card into the device the memory card s file directory appears in the SD memory card folder under the internal memory. Getting started Remove the back cover. Insert a memory card with the gold coloured contacts facing downwards. Push the memory card into the slot until it locks in place. Replace the back cover. Removing the memory card Before removing the memory card first unmount it for safe removal. On the Home screen tap Apps Settings More Storage Unmount SD card. Remove the back cover. Push the memory card until it disengages from the device and then pull it out. Replace the back cover. Do not remove the memory card while the device is transferring or accessing information. Doing so can cause data to be lost or corrupted or damage to the memory card or device. Samsung is not responsible for losses that result from the misuse of damaged memory cards including the loss of data. Getting started Formatting the memory card A memory card formatted on a computer may not be compatible with the device. Format the memory card on the device. On the Home screen tap Apps Settings More Storage Format SD card Format SD card Erase everything. Before formatting the memory card remember to make backup copies of all important data stored on the device. The manufacturer s warranty does not cover loss of data resulting from user actions. Turning the device on and off When turning on the device for the first time follow the on screen instructions to set up your device. Press and hold the Power button for a few seconds to turn the device on and off. Follow all posted warnings and directions from authorised personnel in areas where the use of wireless devices is restricted such as aeroplanes and hospitals. Press and hold the Power button and tap Flight mode to disable the wireless features. To turn off the device press and hold the Power button and then tap Power off. Getting started Holding the device Do not cover the antenna area with your hands or other objects. This may cause connectivity problems or drain the battery. Adjusting the volume Press the Volume button up or down to adjust the ringtone volume or to adjust the sound volume when playing music or video. Switching to silent mode Use one of the following methods Press and hold the Volume button down until it switches to silent mode. Press and hold the Power button and then tap Mute or Vibrate. Open the notifications panel at the top of the screen and then tap Sound or Vibrate. Basics Indicator icons The icons displayed at the top of the screen provide information about the status of the device. The icons listed in the table below are most common. Icon Meaning No signal Signal strength Roaming outside of normal service area GPRS network connected EDGE network connected UMTS network connected HSDPA network connected HSPA network connected LTE network connected Wi Fi connected Bluetooth feature activated GPS activated Call in progress Missed call Air gesture feature activated Smart screen feature activated Synced with the web Connected to computer No SIM or USIM card New text or multimedia message Alarm activated Silent mode activated Basics Icon Meaning Vibration mode activated Flight mode activated Error occurred or caution required Battery power level Using the touch screen Use only fingers to use the touch screen. Do not allow the touch screen to come into contact with other electrical devices. Electrostatic discharges can cause the touch screen to malfunction. Do not allow the touch screen to contact water. The touch screen may malfunction in humid conditions or when exposed to water. To avoid damaging the touch screen do not tap it with anything sharp or apply excessive pressure to it with your fingertips. Leaving the touch screen idle for extended periods may result in afterimages screen burn in or ghosting. Turn off the touch screen when you do not use the device. Finger gestures Tapping To open an application to select a menu item to press an on screen button or to enter a character using the on screen keyboard tap it with a finger. Basics Tapping and holding Tap and hold an item for more than seconds to access available options. Dragging To move an icon thumbnail or preview to a new location tap and hold it and drag it to the target position. Basics Double tapping Double tap on a webpage map or image to zoom in a part. Double tap again to return. Flicking Flick left or right on the Home screen or the Applications screen to see another panel. Flick up or down to scroll through a webpage or a list such as contacts. Basics Pinching Spread two fingers apart on a webpage map or image to zoom in a part. Pinch to zoom out. Control motions Simple motions allow easy control of the device. Before using motions make sure the motion feature is activated. On the Home screen tap Apps Settings My device Motions and gestures Motion and then drag the Motion switch to the right. Excessive shaking or impact to the device may result in unintended inputs. Control motions properly. Rotating the screen Many applications allow display in either portrait or landscape orientation. Rotating the device causes the display to automatically adjust to fit the new screen orientation. Basics To prevent the display from rotating automatically open the notifications panel and deselect Screen rotation. Some applications do not allow screen rotation. Some applications display a different screen depending on the orientation. The calculator turns into a scientific calculator when rotated to landscape. Picking up When you pick up the device after it has been idle for some time or when the screen has turned off it vibrates if you have missed calls or new messages. Holding to ear While viewing call message or contact details pick up and hold the device to your ear to make a call. Basics Panning to browse When an image is zoomed in tap and hold a point on the screen and then move the device in any direction to browse the image. Turning over Turn over the device to mute ringtone or pause media playback. Basics Tilting Tap and hold two points on the screen and then tilt the device back and forth to zoom in or out. Palm motions Use palm motions to control the device by touching the screen. Before using motions make sure the palm motion feature is activated. On the Home screen tap Apps Settings My device Motions and gestures Palm motion and then drag the Palm motion switch to the right. Sweeping Sweep your hand across the screen to capture a screenshot. The image is saved in Gallery Screenshots. It is not possible to capture a screenshot while using some applications. Basics Covering Cover the screen with a palm to pause media playback. Air Gesture Use this feature to control functions without touching the screen. Before using this feature make sure the air gesture feature is activated. On the Home screen tap Apps Settings My device Motions and gestures Air gesture and then drag the Air gesture switch to the right. The device may not recognise your gestures if you perform them too far from the device or while wearing dark coloured clothes such as gloves. Quick glance When the screen is turned off move your hand above the sensor to view notifications missed calls new messages time and date and more. Basics Air jump While viewing emails or webpages move your hand up or down across the sensor to scroll the page up or down. Air browse Move your hand to the left or right across the sensor to browse images webpages songs or memos. Basics Air move Tap and hold an icon with one hand and then move your other hand to the left or right across the sensor to move the icon to another location. While using the daily or weekly calendar tap and hold an event and then move your other hand to the left or right to move the event to another day or week. Air call accept When a call comes in move your hand to the left and then to the right across the sensor to answer the call. Basics Air View On the Home screen tap Apps Settings My device Air view and then drag the Air view switch to the right. Point at an item with your finger to preview the content or view information in a pop up window. When you point at an area on a webpage for a few seconds the device magnifies the area. Samsung User Manual Samsung Smart Pause On the Home screen tap Apps Settings My device Smart screen and then tick Smart pause. During video playback look away from the screen to pause the video. To resume playback look at the screen again. Basics Samsung Smart Scroll On the Home screen tap Apps Settings My device Smart screen Smart scroll and then drag the Smart scroll switch to the right. While viewing emails or webpages tilt your head downwards or upwards to scroll in that direction. You can also set the device to scroll up or down while tilting the device forwards or backwards. You can enable or disable the signal icon on the screen. When the device recognises the movements of your head or the device the icon turns green. Activating glove mode Activate this mode to use the touch screen with gloves on. On the Home screen tap Apps Settings My device Display and then tick High touch sensitivity. Use leather gloves for better recognition while touching the screen. Other types of material may not be recognised. For best results tap the screen firmly while wearing gloves. Unintended touch inputs may occur without gloves in glove mode. Basics Activating Multi Window Use this feature to run two applications on the screen at the same time. Only applications on the Multi Window panel can run. When launching applications that contain multimedia files such as music or videos sound from both files will be played. This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider. To use Multi Window on the Applications screen tap Settings My device Display and then tick Multi window. Using the Multi Window panel To activate the Multi Window panel tap and hold. The Multi Window panel appears at the left side of the screen. Select one application and then drag another application to a new location. To hide the Multi Window panel tap and hold again. Drag the bar between the application panels up or down to adjust the size of the panels. Tap the panel handle to hide or show the panel. When a panel is open tap and hold the handle and drag it to the left or right edge of the screen to move the panel. When a panel is hidden tap and hold the handle and drag it up or down to move the handle. Basics Using Multi Window applications While using Multi Window applications tap or and use one of the following Switch locations between Multi Window applications. Maximise the window to fit the screen. Close the application. Notifications Notification icons appear on the status bar at the top of the screen to report missed calls new messages calendar events device status and more. Drag down from the status bar to open the notifications panel. Scroll the list to see additional alerts. To close the notifications panel drag up the bar that is at the bottom of the screen. Quick setting panel From the quick setting panel you can view your device s current settings. Drag down from the status bar tap to open the quick setting panel and then use the following options Wi Fi Activate or deactivate the Wi Fi feature. GPS Activate or deactivate the GPS feature. Sound Activate or deactivate silent mode. You can vibrate or mute your device in silent mode. Screen rotation Allow or prevent the interface from rotating when you rotate the device. Bluetooth Activate or deactivate the Bluetooth feature. Mobile data Activate or deactivate the data connection. Blocking mode Activate or deactivate blocking mode. In blocking mode the device will block notifications. To select which notifications will be blocked tap Settings My device Blocking mode. Power saving Activate or deactivate power saving mode. Basics Screen Mirroring Activate or deactivate the screen mirroring feature. Multi window Set to use Multi Window. Wi Fi hotspot Activate or deactivate the Wi Fi tethering feature. S Beam Activate or deactivate the S Beam feature. NFC Activate or deactivate the NFC feature. Air View Activate or deactivate the air view feature. Air Gesture Activate or deactivate the air gesture feature. Driving mode Activate or deactivate driving mode. Smart stay Activate or deactivate the smart stay feature. Smart scroll Activate or deactivate the smart scroll feature. Sync Activate or deactivate auto syncing of applications. Flight mode Activate or deactivate flight mode. The available options may vary depending on the region or service provider. To rearrange the options on the notifications panel open the notifications panel tap tap and hold an item and then drag it to another location. Home screen The Home screen is the starting point to access all of the device s features. It displays indicator icons widgets shortcuts to applications and others. The Home screen can have multiple panels. To view other panels scroll left or right. Changing the Home screen mode The Home screen has standard and easy modes. In easy mode you can easily access your favourite contacts applications and settings by adding shortcuts to the Home screen. To switch to easy mode on the Home screen tap Apps Settings My device Home screen mode Easy mode Apply. Basics Rearranging items Adding an application icon On the Home screen tap Apps tap and hold an application icon and then drag it into a panel preview. Adding an item Customise the Home screen by adding widgets folders or pages. Tap and hold the empty area on the Home screen and then select one of the following categories Apps and widgets Add widgets or applications to the Home screen. Folder Create a new folder. Page Create a new page. Moving an item Tap and hold an item and drag it to a new location. To move it to another panel drag it to the side of the screen. Removing an item Tap and hold an item and drag it to the rubbish bin that appears at the top of the Home screen. When the rubbish bin turns red release the item. Rearranging panels Adding a new panel Tap Edit page. Basics Moving a panel Tap Edit page tap and hold a panel preview and then drag it to a new location. Removing a panel Tap Edit page tap and hold a panel preview and then drag it to the rubbish bin at the top of the screen. Setting wallpaper Set an image or photo stored in the device as wallpaper for the Home screen. On the Home screen tap Set wallpaper Home screen and then select one of the following Gallery See photos taken by the device s camera or images downloaded from the Internet. Live wallpapers See animated images. Wallpapers See wallpaper images. Then select an image and tap Set wallpaper. Or select an image resize it by dragging the frame and then tap Done. Using widgets Widgets are small applications that provide convenient functions and information on your Home screen. To use them add widgets from the widgets panel to the Home screen. Some widgets connect to web services. Using a web based widget may result in additional charges. The widgets available may vary depending on the region or service provider. Basics Adding widgets to the Home screen On the Home screen tap Apps Widgets. Scroll left or right on the widgets panel and then tap and hold a widget to add it to the Home screen. Using the setting shortcut widget On the Home screen tap Apps Widgets and then tap and hold Settings Shortcut to open a list of setting options. Select a setting option to add it to the Home screen as a shortcut. Locked screen The locked screen prevents the device from unwanted operation when not in use and also allows you to add convenient widgets. Locking and unlocking the device Pressing the Power button turns off the screen and puts the device into lock mode. The device automatically gets locked if it is not used for a specified period. To unlock the device press the Power button or the Home button and flick your finger in any direction within the unlock screen area at the lower part of the screen. Basics Adding widgets To use widgets when the screen is locked on the Applications screen tap Settings My device Lock screen and then tick Multiple widgets. You cannot use widgets on the locked screen in easy mode. Drag the widgets panel down to expand it. Scroll right to the last page tap and then select a widget to add to the locked screen. Rearranging panels Moving a panel Drag the widgets panel down scroll left or right tap and hold a panel preview and then drag it to a new location. Removing a panel Drag the widgets panel down scroll left or right tap and hold a panel preview and then drag it to the rubbish bin at the top of the screen. Basics Using applications This device can run many different types of applications ranging from media to Internet applications. Opening an application On the Home screen or the Applications screen select an application icon to open it. Opening from recently used applications Press and hold the Home button to open the list of recently used applications. Select an application icon to open. Closing an application Close applications not in use to save battery power and maintain device performance. Press and hold the Home button tap and then tap End next to an application to close it. To close all running applications tap End all. Alternatively press and hold the Home button and then tap. Applications screen The Applications screen displays icons for all applications including any new applications installed. On the Home screen tap Apps to open the Applications screen. To view other panels scroll left or right. Rearranging applications Tap Edit tap and hold an application and then drag it to a new location. To move it to another panel drag it to the side of the screen. Basics Organising with folders Put related applications together in a folder for convenience. Tap Edit tap and hold an application and then drag it to Create folder. Enter a folder name and then tap OK. Put applications into the new folder by dragging and then tap Save to save the arrangement. Rearranging panels Pinch on the screen tap and hold a panel preview and then drag it to a new location. Installing applications Use application stores such as Samsung Apps to download and install applications. Uninstalling applications Tap Uninstall and then select an application to uninstall it. Default applications that come with the device cannot be uninstalled. Sharing applications Share downloaded applications with other users via email Bluetooth or other methods. Tap Share app select applications tap Done and then select a sharing method. The next steps vary depending on the method selected. Help Access help information to learn how to use the device and applications or configure important settings. Tap Help on the Applications screen. Select a category to view tips. To sort categories by an alphabetical order tap. To search for keywords tap. Basics Entering text Use the Samsung keyboard or the voice input feature to enter text. Text entry is not supported in some languages. To enter text you must change the input language to one of the supported languages. Changing the keyboard type Tap any text field open the notifications panel tap Choose input method and then select the type of keyboard to use. Using the Samsung keyboard Changing the keyboard layout Tap Portrait keyboard types and then tap Qwerty keyboard or x keyboard. On the x keyboard a key has three or four characters. To enter a character tap repeatedly the key corresponding to the character. Set options for the Samsung Delete a preceding character. keyboard. Enter uppercase. Break to the next line. Enter punctuation marks. Enter a space. Entering uppercase Tap before entering a character. For all caps tap it twice. Basics Changing the keyboard type Tap and hold and then tap to change the keyboard type. Tap and hold and move the floating keyboard to another location. To switch to the fixed keyboard tap. Changing language keyboards Add languages to the keyboard and then slide the space key left or right to change language keyboards. Handwriting Tap and hold tap and then write a word with a finger. Suggested words appear as characters are entered. Select a suggested word. Use handwriting gestures to perform actions such as editing or deleting characters and inserting spaces. To view the gesture guides tap and hold and then tap Help Use handwriting gestures. Basics Entering text by voice Activate the voice input feature and then speak into the microphone. The device displays what you speak. If the device does not recognise your words correctly tap the underlined text and select an alternative word or phrase from the dropdown list. To change the language or add languages for the voice recognition tap the current language. Copying and pasting Tap and hold over text drag or to select more or less text and then tap Copy to copy or Cut to cut. The selected text is copied to the clipboard. To paste it into a text entry field tap and hold at the point where it should be inserted and then tap Paste. Connecting to a Wi Fi network Connect the device to a Wi Fi network to use the Internet or share media files with other devices. p. Turning Wi Fi on and off Open the notifications panel and then tap Wi Fi to turn it on or off. Your device uses a non harmonised frequency and is intended for use in all European countries. The WLAN can be operated in the EU without restriction indoors but cannot be operated outdoors. Turn off Wi Fi to save the battery when not in use. Basics Joining Wi Fi networks On the Applications screen tap Settings Connections Wi Fi and then drag the Wi Fi switch to the right. Select a network from the list of detected Wi Fi networks enter a password if necessary and then tap Connect. Networks that require a password appear with a lock icon. After the device connects to a Wi Fi network the device will automatically connect to it any time it is available. Adding Wi Fi networks If the desired network does not appear in the networks list tap Add Wi Fi network at the bottom of the networks list. Enter the network name in Network SSID select the security type and enter the password if it is not an open network and then tap Connect. Forgetting Wi Fi networks Any network that has ever been used including the current network can be forgotten so the device will not automatically connect to it. Select the network in the networks list and then tap Forget. Setting up accounts Google applications such as Play Store require a Google account and Samsung Apps requires a Samsung account. Create Google and Samsung accounts to have the best experience with the device. Adding accounts Follow the instructions that appear when opening a Google application without signing in to set up a Google account. To sign in with or sign up for a Google account on the Applications screen tap Settings Accounts Add account Google. After that tap New to sign up or tap Existing and then follow on screen instructions to complete the account setup. More than one Google account can be used on the device. Set up a Samsung account as well. Basics Removing accounts On the Applications screen tap Settings Accounts select an account name under My accounts select the account to remove and then tap Remove account. Transferring files Move audio video image or other types of files from the device to the computer or vice versa. The following file formats are supported by some applications. Some file formats are not supported depending on the version of the device s software or the computer operating system. Music mp m a mp gp ga wma ogg oga aac and flac Image bmp gif jpg and png Video gp mp avi wmv flv and mkv Document doc docx xls xlsx ppt pptx pdf and txt Connecting with Samsung Kies Samsung Kies is a computer application that manages media libraries contacts and calendars and syncs them with Samsung devices. Download the latest Samsung Kies from the Samsung website. Connect the device to the computer using the USB cable. Samsung Kies launches on the computer automatically. If Samsung Kies does not launch double click the Samsung Kies icon on the computer. Transfer files between your device and the computer. Refer to the Samsung Kies help for more information. Basics Connecting with Windows Media Player Ensure that Windows Media Player is installed on the computer. Connect the device to the computer using the USB cable. Open Windows Media Player and sync music files. Connecting as a media device Connect the device to the computer using the USB cable. Open the notifications panel and then tap Connected as a media device Media device MTP. Tap Camera PTP if your computer does not support Media Transfer Protocol MTP or not have any appropriate driver installed. Transfer files between your device and the computer. Securing the device Prevent others from using or accessing personal data and information stored in the device by using the security features. The device requires an unlock code whenever unlocking it. Setting a face unlock On the Applications screen tap Settings My device Lock screen Screen lock Face unlock. Fit your face in the frame to be captured. Then set a backup unlock PIN or pattern to unlock the screen in case the face unlock fails. Basics Setting a face and voice unlock On the Applications screen tap Settings My device Lock screen Screen lock Face and voice. Fit your face in the frame to be captured and then set a voice command. Then set a backup unlock PIN or pattern to unlock the screen in case the face and voice unlock fails. Setting a pattern On the Applications screen tap Settings My device Lock screen Screen lock Pattern. Draw a pattern by connecting four dots or more and then draw the pattern again to verify it. Set a backup unlock PIN to unlock the screen when you forget the pattern. Setting a PIN On the Applications screen tap Settings My device Lock screen Screen lock PIN. Enter at least four numbers and then enter the password again to verify it. Basics Setting a password On the Applications screen tap Settings My device Lock screen Screen lock Password. Enter at least four characters including numbers and symbols and then enter the password again to verify it. Unlocking the device Turn on the screen by pressing the Power button or the Home button and enter the unlock code. If the unlock code is forgotten take the device to a Samsung Service Centre to reset it. Upgrading the device The device can be upgraded to the latest software. This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Upgrading with Samsung Kies Launch Samsung Kies and connect the device to the computer. Samsung Kies automatically recognises the device and shows available updates in a dialogue box if any. Click the Update button in the dialogue box to start upgrading. Refer to the Samsung Kies help for details on how to upgrade. Do not turn off the computer or disconnect the USB cable while the device is upgrading. While upgrading the device do not connect other media devices to the computer. Doing so may interfere with the update process. Basics Upgrading over the air The device can be directly upgraded to the latest software by the firmware over the air FOTA service. On the Applications screen tap Settings More About device Software update Update. Communication Phone Use this application to make or answer a call. Tap Phone on the Applications screen. Making calls Making a call Use one of the following methods Keypad Enter the number using the keypad and then tap. Logs Make a call from the history of incoming and outgoing calls and messages. Favourites Make a call from the list of favourite contacts. Contacts Make a call from the contacts list. Speed dial numbers For speed dial numbers tap and hold the corresponding digit. Number prediction When entering numbers on the keypad automatic predictions appear. Select one of these to make a call. Communication Finding contacts Enter a name phone number or email address to find a contact in the contacts list. As characters are entered predicted contacts appear. Select one to place a call to it. Making an international call Tap and hold until the sign appears. Enter the country code area code and phone number and then tap. During a call The following actions are available Select an equaliser option for use during a call. Deactivate the noise reduction feature that removes background noise so that the other party can hear you more clearly. Increase the volume. Hold Hold a call. Or press and hold the headset button. Tap Unhold to retrieve the held call or press and hold the headset button. Add call Dial a second call. Keypad Open the keypad. End call End the current call. Speaker Activate the speakerphone. Keep the device away from your ears when using the speakerphone. Mute Turn off the microphone so that the other party cannot hear you. Headset Switch to a Bluetooth headset if it is connected to the device. Swap Switch between two calls. Merge Make a multiparty call when connected to two calls. Repeat this to add more parties. This feature is available only if the multiparty call service is active. Contacts Open the contacts list. Memo Create a memo. Message Send a message. Communication Transfer Connect the first party to the second party. This disconnects you from the conversation. Manage conference call Have a private conversation with one party during a multiparty call or disconnect one party form the multiparty call. Adding contacts To add a phone number to the contacts list from the keypad enter the number and tap Add to contacts. Viewing call logs Tap Logs to view the history of incoming and outgoing calls. To filter a call log tap View by and then select an option. Fixed dialling number The device can be set to restrict outgoing calls only to numbers with specified prefixes. Those prefixes are stored in the SIM or USIM card. Tap Call settings Additional settings Fixed Dialling Numbers Enable FDN and then enter the PIN supplied with the SIM or USIM card. Tap FDN list and add numbers. Call barring The device can be set to prevent certain calls from being made. For example international calling can be disabled. Tap Call settings Additional settings Call barring select a call type select a call barring option and then enter a password. Receiving calls Answering a call When a call comes in drag outside the large circle or press the headset button. If the call waiting service is active another call can be made. When the second call is answered the first call is put on hold. Communication Rejecting a call When a call comes in drag outside the large circle or press and hold the headset button. To send a message when rejecting an incoming call drag the reject message bar upwards. To create the rejection message tap Call settings Set up call reject messages. Automatically rejecting calls from unwanted numbers Tap Call settings Call rejection Auto reject mode Auto reject numbers and then tap Auto reject list. Tap Create enter a number assign a category and then tap Save. Missed calls If a call is missed appears on the status bar. Open the notifications panel to view the list of missed calls. Call waiting Call waiting is a service provided by the service provider. A user can use this service to suspend a current call and switch to an incoming call. This service is not available for video calls. To make use of this service tap Call settings Additional settings Call waiting. Call forwarding The device can be set to send incoming calls to a specified number. Tap Call settings Additional settings Call forwarding and then select a call type and condition. Enter a number and tap Enable. Ending a call Tap End call to end a call. Or press the headset button. Video calls Making a video call Enter the number or select a contact from the contacts list and then tap to make a video call. Communication During a video call The following actions are available Switch camera Switch between the front and rear camera. Mute Turn off the microphone so that the other party cannot hear you. End call End the current call. Hide me Hide your image from the other party. Outgoing image Select an image to show it to the other party. Keypad Open the keypad. Switch to headset Switch to a Bluetooth headset if it is connected to the device. Speaker off Deactivate the speakerphone feature. Animated emotions Apply emotional icons to your image. Theme view Apply decorative icons to your image. Enable cartoon view Change the view mode to the cartoon view. Dual camera Use the front and rear cameras so that the other party can see you and your surroundings. Video calling with dual camera mode will be provided for up to minutes. After minutes the device will turn off the rear camera for optimal performance. Tap and hold the other party s image to access the following options Capture image Capture the other party s image. Record video Take a video of the other party s images. It is illegal in many countries to record a call without the other party s prior permission. Tap and hold your image to access the following options Switch camera Switch between the front and rear camera. Outgoing image Select an image to show it to the other party. Communication Swapping images Drag an image of either party onto the other party s image to swap the images. Contacts Use this application to manage contacts including phone numbers email addresses and others. Tap Contacts on the Applications screen. Managing contacts Creating a contact Tap and enter contact information. Add an image. Add or delete a contact field. Communication Editing a contact Select a contact to edit and then tap. Deleting a contact Tap Delete. Setting a speed dial number Tap Speed dial setting select a speed dial number and then select a contact for it. To remove a speed dial number tap and hold it and then tap Remove. Searching for contacts Use one of the following search methods Scroll up or down the contacts list. Use the index at the right side of the contacts list for quick scrolling by dragging a finger along it. Tap the search field at the top of the contacts list and enter search criteria. Once a contact is selected take one of the following actions Add to favourite contacts. Make a voice or video call. Compose a message. Compose an email. Displaying contacts By default the device shows all saved contacts on the device the SIM or USIM card or another account. Tap Contacts to display and then select a location where contacts are saved. Communication Moving contacts Moving contacts to Google Tap Merge accounts Merge with Google. Contacts moved to Google Contacts appear with in the contacts list. Moving contacts to Samsung Tap Merge accounts Merge with Samsung. Contacts moved to Samsung Contacts appear with in the contacts list. Importing and exporting contacts Importing contacts Tap Import Export Import from SIM card Import from SD card or Import from USB storage. Exporting contacts Tap Import Export Export to SIM card Export to SD card or Export to USB storage. Sharing contacts Tap Import Export Share namecard via select contacts tap Done and then select a sharing method. Favourite contacts Tap and then take one of the following actions Search Search for contacts. Add to favourites Add contacts to favourites. Remove from favourites Remove contacts from favourites. Grid view List view View contacts in grid or list form. Help Access help information about using contacts. Communication Contact groups Adding contacts to a group Select a group and then tap. Select contacts to add and then tap Done. Managing groups Tap and then take one of the following actions Create Make a new group. Search Search for contacts. Change order Tap and hold next to the group name drag it up or down to another position and then tap Done. Delete groups Select user added groups and then tap Delete. Default groups cannot be deleted. Help Access help information about using contacts. Sending a message or email to a group s members Select a group tap Send message or Send email select members and then tap Done. Business card Create a business card and send it to others. Tap Set up my profile enter details such as phone number email address and postal address and then tap Save. If user information has been saved when you set up the device select the business card in ME and then tap to edit. Tap Share namecard via and then select a sharing method. Communication Messaging Use this application to send text messages SMS or multimedia messages MMS. Tap Messaging on the Applications screen. You may incur additional charges for sending or receiving messages while you are outside your home service area. For details contact your service provider. Sending messages Tap add recipients enter a message and then tap. Use the following methods to add recipients Enter a phone number. Tap select contacts and then tap Done. Use the following methods to make a multimedia message Tap and attach images videos contacts memos events and others. Tap Add subject to enter a subject. Sending scheduled messages While composing a message tap Scheduled message. Set a time and date and then tap OK. The device will send the message at the specified time and date. If the device is turned off at the scheduled time is not connected to the network or the network is unstable the message will not be sent. This feature is based on the time and date set on the device. The time and date may be incorrect if you move across time zones and the network does not update the information. Translating and sending messages To use the translating feature while composing a message tap Translate drag the Translate switch to the right set a language pair and then tap OK. Tap to translate the message and then tap Done. The translated message will replace the message of the source language. Communication Viewing incoming messages Incoming messages are grouped into message threads by contact. Select a contact to view the person s message. Listening to a voice message Tap and hold on the keypad and then follow the instructions from your service provider. Email Use this application to send or view email messages. Tap Email on the Applications screen. Setting up email accounts Set up an email account when opening Email for the first time. Enter the email address and password. Tap Next for a private email account such as Google Mail or tap Manual setup for a company email account. After that follow on screen instructions to complete the setup. To set up another email account tap Settings Add account. Sending messages Tap the email account to use and then tap at the bottom of the screen. Enter recipients subject and message and then tap. Tap to add a recipient from the contacts list. Tap to attach images videos contacts memos events and others. Tap to insert images events contacts location information and others into the message. Communication Sending scheduled messages While composing a message tap Schedule sending. Tick Schedule sending set a time and date and then tap Done. The device will send the message at the specified time and date. If the device is turned off at the scheduled time is not connected to the network or the network is unstable the message will not be sent. This feature is based on the time and date set on the device. The time and date may be incorrect if you move across time zones and the network does not update the information. Reading messages Select an email account to use and new messages are retrieved. To manually retrieve new messages tap. Tap a message to read. Add this email address to the contacts list. Mark the message as a reminder. Open attachments. Forward the message. Delete the message. Reply to all recipients. Go to the previous or next message. Reply to the message. Tap the attachment tab to open attachments and then tap Save to save it. Communication Google Mail Use this application to quickly and directly access the Google Mail service. Tap Google Mail on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. This application may be labelled differently depending on the region or service provider. Sending messages In any mailbox tap enter recipients a subject and a message and then tap. Tap Attach picture to attach images. Tap Attach video to attach videos. Tap Add Cc Bcc to add more recipients. Tap Save draft to save the message for later delivery. Tap Discard to start over. Reading messages Mark the message as a reminder. Reply to this message. Add this email address to the Reply to all recipients or forward contacts list. this message to others. Preview attachment. Keep this message for long term Mark the message as unread. storage. Delete this message. Add a label to this message. Communication Labels Google Mail does not use actual folders but uses labels instead. When Google Mail is launched it displays messages labelled Inbox. Tap to view messages in other labels. To add a label to a message select the message tap and then select the label to assign. Talk Use this application to chat with others via Google Talk. Tap Talk on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Public profile Tap the account ID at the top of the friends list to change the availability status image or status message. Adding friends Tap enter the email address of the friend to add and then tap DONE. Chatting with friends Select a friend from the friends list enter a message in the field at the bottom of the screen and then tap. To add a friend to chat tap Add to chat. To end the chat tap End chat. Communication Switching between chats Scroll left or right. Deleting chat history Chats are automatically saved. To delete chat history tap Clear chat history. Google Use this application to stay connected with people via Google s social network service. Tap Google on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Tap All circles to change the category and then scroll up or down to view posts from your circles. Tap to use other social network features. Messenger Use this application to chat with others via Google instant messaging service. Tap Messenger on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Select a friend from the friends list enter a message in the field at the bottom of the screen and then tap. Communication ChatON Use this application to chat with any device. To use this application you must sign in to your Samsung account. Tap ChatON on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Create a buddies list by entering phone numbers or Samsung account email addresses or by selecting buddies from the list of suggestions. Alternatively tap Contact sync to manually sync contacts from the device. Tap Chats Start chat and select a buddy to start chatting. To switch to voice or video chat tap ChatON voice or ChatON video. Video chatting with dual camera mode will be provided for up to minutes. After minutes the device will turn off the rear camera for optimal performance. Web network Internet Use this application to browse the Internet. Tap Internet on the Applications screen. Viewing webpages Tap the address field enter the web address and then tap Go. Tap to share save or print the current webpage while viewing a webpage. To change the search engine tap the address field and then tap the search engine icon next to the web address. Opening a new page Tap New window. To go to another webpage tap scroll up or down and tap the page to select it. Bookmarks To bookmark the current webpage tap Add bookmark. To open a bookmarked webpage tap and then select one. History Tap History to open a webpage from the list of recently visited webpages. To clear the history tap Clear history. Links Tap and hold a link on the webpage to open it in a new page save or copy. To view saved links use Downloads. p. Web network Sharing webpages To share a webpage address with others tap Share via. To share a part of a webpage tap and hold the desired text and then tap Share. Chrome Use this application to search for information and browse webpages. Tap Chrome on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Viewing webpages Tap the address field and then enter a web address or search criteria. Opening a new page Tap New tab. To go to another webpage tap a webpage. Searching the web by voice Tap the address field tap speak a keyword and then select one of the suggested keywords that appear. Syncing with other devices Sync open tabs and bookmarks to use with Chrome on another device when you are logged in with the same Google account. To view open tabs on other devices tap Other devices. Select a webpage to open. To view bookmarks tap. Web network Bluetooth Bluetooth creates a direct wireless connection between two devices over short distances. Use Bluetooth to exchange data or media files with other devices. Samsung is not responsible for the loss interception or misuse of data sent or received via the Bluetooth feature. Always ensure that you share and receive data with devices that are trusted and properly secured. If there are obstacles between the devices the operating distance may be reduced. Some devices especially those that are not tested or approved by the Bluetooth SIG may be incompatible with your device. Do not use the Bluetooth feature for illegal purposes for example pirating copies of files or illegally tapping communications for commercial purposes. Samsung is not responsible for the repercussion of illegal use of the Bluetooth feature. To activate Bluetooth on the Applications screen tap Settings Connections Bluetooth and then drag the Bluetooth switch to the right. Pairing with other Bluetooth devices On the Applications screen tap Settings Connections Bluetooth Scan and detected devices are listed. Select the device you want to pair with and then accept the auto generated passkey on both devices to confirm. Sending and receiving data Many applications support data transfer via Bluetooth. An example is Gallery. Open Gallery select an image tap Bluetooth and then select one of the Bluetooth devices. After that accept the Bluetooth authorisation request on the other device to receive the image. The transferred file is saved in the Bluetooth folder. If a contact is received it is added to the contacts list automatically. Web network Screen Mirroring Use this feature to connect your device to a large screen with an AllShare Cast dongle or HomeSync and then share your contents. You can also use this feature with other devices that support the Wi Fi Miracast feature. This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Miracast enabled devices that do not support High bandwidth Digital Content Protection HDCP may not be compatible with this feature. Some files may be buffered during playback depending on the network connection. To save energy deactivate this feature when not in use. If you specify a Wi Fi frequency AllShare Cast dongles or HomeSync may not be discovered or connected. If you play videos or games on a TV select an appropriate TV mode to get the best experience. On the Applications screen tap Settings Connections Screen Mirroring and then drag the Screen Mirroring switch to the right. Select a device open or play a file and then control the display with the keys on your device. To connect to a device using a PIN tap and hold the device name to enter the PIN. Samsung Link Use this application to play contents saved on various devices over the Internet. You can play and send any file on any device to another device or web storage service. To use this application you must sign in to your Samsung account and register two or more devices. The registration methods may vary depending on the device type. To get more details tap FAQ. Tap Samsung Link on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. When opening this application recent contents from all your registered devices will appear. You can browse and play them. To start sharing files scroll to DEVICES STORAGE and select an option. Web network Sending files Send files to other devices or upload them to web storage services. Select a device tap select files and then tap Done. Sharing files Select a device or web storage tap select files tap Done and then select a sharing method. Playing files on a remote device Select a device or web storage tap select a file and then select a device. Supported file formats may differ depending on connected devices as a media player. Some files may be buffered while playing depending on the network connection. Using the Group Play feature Share screens with multiple devices. Select a media category and tap. Select files tap Done and then tap Group Play. A Group Play session is created and the files are shared with other devices in the session. Managing contents on a web storage service Select a web storage service and then view and manage your files. To download files from a web storage service tap select files and then tap Done. To register web storage services to the device tap Settings Registered storage and then select a web storage service. Web network Group Play Use this application to share screens with multiple devices. Create or join a Group Play session and then share images documents or music. Tap Group Play on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. While using this application you cannot use the Internet. Creating a group for Group Play Tap Create group and then use the following features Share music Select music files to share. You can connect two or more devices and use them to achieve a sound effect. Share pictures Select images to share. Share documents Select documents to share. Play games Play online games with friends. Tap and write a note or draw on the screen. All participants can see what you create. Tap to view all shared images in mosaic layout. Tap to select more images or documents. Tap to view the group participants. Joining Group Play Tap Join group and then select a Group Play session to join. Select a media category and the content that is currently being shared will appear on the device. Activate the NFC feature and touch the back of your device to the back of another device that is opening a session. Web network NFC Your device allows you to read near field communication NFC tags that contain information about products. You can also use this feature to make payments and buy tickets for transportation or events after downloading the required applications. The battery contains a built in NFC antenna. Handle the battery carefully to avoid damaging the NFC antenna. If the screen is locked your device will not read NFC tags or receive data. To activate the NFC feature on the Applications screen tap Settings Connections NFC. Drag the NFC switch to the right. Reading information from an NFC tag Place the NFC antenna area on the back of your device near an NFC tag. The information from the tag will appear. Making a purchase with the NFC feature Before you can use the NFC feature to make payments you must register for the mobile payment service. To register or get details about the service contact your service provider. Touch the NFC antenna area on the back of your device to the NFC card reader. To use a SIM or USIM card as the default payment method on the Applications screen tap Settings Connections NFC NFC payment USIM wallet. Sending data via Android Beam Use the Android Beam feature to send data such as webpages and contacts to NFC enabled devices. On the Applications screen tap Settings Connections NFC. Drag the Android Beam switch to the right. Select an item touch the back of your device to the back of the other device and then tap your device s screen. Web network S Beam Use this feature to send data such as videos images and documents. Do not send copyright protected data via S Beam. Doing so may violate copyright laws. Samsung is not responsible for any liabilities caused by the illegal use of copyrighted data. On the Applications screen tap Settings Connections S Beam. Drag the S Beam switch to the right. Select a file touch the back of your device to the back of the other device and then tap your device s screen. If both devices try to send data simultaneously the file transfer may fail. Web network WatchON Use this application to connect to a TV to watch your favourite shows and movies. Tap WatchON on the Applications screen. You must first connect the device to a network and ensure that the device s infrared port is facing the TV. Connecting to a TV Connect to a TV to display the device s screen onto a large surface and control the TV remotely with the device. Select a country and a region. Tap Set Up Now and then follow the on screen instructions to register the TV to the device. The steps vary depending on the options you choose. To connect to other devices tap Settings My room Add devices. Watching TV Select from the TV programme suggestions based on your choice when registering a TV or select a category at the top of the screen. Select a TV programme and then tap Watch now. The selected programme will show up on the connected TV. Tap and open the control panel to control the TV. Setting programme reminders Tap the time at the bottom of the screen and select a time for a TV programme you want to watch. Select a programme tap Reminder and then set an alarm time to remind you of the TV programme. Media Music Use this application to listen to music. Tap Music on the Applications screen. Some file formats are not supported depending on the device s software version. Some files may not play properly depending on the encoding used. Playing music Select a music category and then select a song to play. Tap the album image at the bottom of the screen to open the music player screen. Play music on DLNA enabled Adjust the volume. devices. Set the file as your favourite song. Turn on shuffle. Change the repeat mode. Hide the music player screen. Open the playlist. Restart the currently playing Skip to the next song. Tap and song or skip to the previous hold to move forwards quickly. song. Tap and hold to move backwards quickly. Pause and resume playback. Media To listen to songs at equal volume levels tap Settings Smart Volume. When Smart Volume is activated the volume may end up louder than the device volume level. Use caution to avoid long term exposure to loud sounds to prevent damage to your hearing. To set a personalised sound while listening to songs with a headset tap Settings Adapt Sound On. When you turn the volume up to level or higher the adapt sound option is not applied to music playback. If you turn the volume down to level or lower the option is reapplied. Setting a song as ringtone To use the currently playing song as ringtone tap Set as Phone ringtone. Creating playlists Make an own selection of songs. Tap Playlists and then tap Create playlist. Enter a title and tap OK. Tap Add music select songs to include and then tap Done. To add the currently playing song to a playlist tap Add to playlist. Playing music by mood Play music grouped by mood. The playlist is automatically created by the device. When a new song is added tap Music square Library update. Tap Music square and select a cell of mood. Or select multiple cells by dragging your finger. Camera Use this application to take photos or videos. Use Gallery to view photos and videos taken with the device s camera. p. Tap Camera on the Applications screen. The camera automatically shuts off when unused. Make sure that the lens is clean. Otherwise the device may not work properly in some modes that require high resolutions. Media Camera etiquette Do not take photos or videos of other people without their permission. Do not take photos or videos where legally prohibited. Do not take photos or videos in places where you may violate other people s privacy. Taking photos Taking a photo Tap the image on the preview screen where the camera should focus. When the subject is in focus the focus frame turns green. Tap to take the photo. View more options. Switch to dual camera mode. Indicates which shooting mode is in Switch between the use. front and rear camera. Start taking a video. Change the shooting mode. Open Gallery to view photos and Select among videos. various effects that are available. Shooting mode Several photo effects are available. Tap MODE and then scroll up or down the screen at the right side of the screen. Auto Use this to allow the camera to evaluate the surroundings and determine the ideal mode for the photo. Beauty face Take a photo with lightened faces for gentler images. Best photo Take a series of photos and then save the best one. Media Best face Use this to take multiple group shots at the same time and combine them to create the best possible image. Tap to take multiple photos. To get the best shot hold the camera steady and remain still while taking photos. When Gallery opens tap the yellow frame on each face and choose the best individual pose for the subject. After choosing a pose for each individual tap Save to merge the images into a single photo and save it. Sound shot Use this to take a photo with sound. Tap to take a photo. The device records a few seconds of audio after taking a photo. While taking photos in this mode sound is recorded by the internal microphone. Drama Use this to take a series of photos and combine them to create an image that shows trails of the movement. To get the best shot follow these tips. The device may not take photos properly in other shooting conditions. Hold the camera steady and remain still while taking photos. Take photos of a subject that is moving in one direction. Take photos with backgrounds that are free of moving objects. Avoid taking photos of a subject and background with similar colours. Avoid taking photos of a subject that is too close or too far away to fit within the viewfinder or that is too long such as a bus or a train. Animated photo Use this to create animated photos from a video. Rich tone HDR Use this to take a photo with an improved contrast ratio. Eraser Use this to erase the movements of moving subjects in the background. Tap to take a series of photos. The device erases traces of movement from a moving subject. To restore the original photo tap Show moving objects and then tap the highlighted area. To get the best shot follow these tips. Hold the camera steady and remain still while taking photos. Avoid taking photos of a subject and background with similar colours. When taking photos of a subject that is moving very little or moving a great deal the camera may not recognise all of the movements. If there are multiple subjects moving in the background the camera may not recognise all of the movement. Media Panorama Take a photo composed of many photos strung together. To get the best shot follow these tips. Move the camera slowly in one direction. Keep the camera s viewfinder within the guide frame. Avoid taking photos of a subject in front of unrecognisable backgrounds such as empty skies or plain walls. Sports Use this setting for fast moving subjects. Night Use this setting for images taken in darker conditions. Panoramic photos A panoramic photo is a wide landscape image consisting of multiple shots. Tap MODE Panorama. Tap and move the camera in one direction. When the blue frame aligns with the viewfinder the camera automatically takes another shot in a panoramic sequence. To stop shooting tap. If the viewfinder is out of the direction the device stops shooting. Taking videos Taking a video Tap to take a video. To pause recording tap. To stop recording tap. Media While recording use the following actions To change the focus tap where you want to focus. To focus on the centre of the screen tap. To capture an image from the video while recording tap. Recording mode Tap to change recording mode. Normal Use this mode for normal quality. Limit for MMS Use this mode to lower quality for sending via messaging. Slow motion Use this mode to take a video of a moving subject. The device will play the video in slow motion. Fast motion Use this mode to take a video of a moving subject. The device will play the video in fast motion. Zooming in and out Use one of the following methods Use the Volume button to zoom in or out. Spread two fingers apart on the screen to zoom in and pinch to zoom out. The zoom in out effect is available when using the zoom feature while shooting video. Media Dual Camera mode When you take a landscape photo with the rear camera the photo or video of captured by the front camera appears in an inset window or vice versa. Use this feature to take a beautiful landscape photo and a self portrait simultaneously. Tap to switch to dual camera mode. Tap to take a photo or tap to take a video. Tap to resize it or move the location. Select among various styles that are available. You can record videos in dual camera mode for up to minutes in Full HD and up to minutes in HD. While taking videos in this mode sound is recorded by the internal microphone. Share shot Tap and then select one of the following Share shot Send a photo directly to another device via Wi Fi Direct or NFC. Buddy photo share Set the device to recognise a person s face that you have tagged in a photo and send it to that person. ChatON photo share Send a photo to another device via ChatON. Remote viewfinder Set the device to control the camera remotely. Controlling the camera remotely Set the device as a viewfinder to control the camera remotely. Tap Remote viewfinder and then connect the device and the camera using Wi Fi Direct or NFC. Tap to take a photo remotely using the device as a viewfinder. Media Configuring settings for Camera Tap to configure settings for Camera. Not all of the following options are available in both still camera and video camera modes. The available options vary depending on the mode used. Photo size Video size Select a resolution. Use higher resolution for higher quality. But it takes up more memory. Burst shot Take a series of photos of moving subjects. Face detection Set the device to recognise people s faces and help you take photos of them. Metering Select a metering method. This determines how light values are calculated. Centre weighted measures background light in the centre of the scene. Spot measures the light value at a specific location. Matrix averages the entire scene. ISO Select an ISO value. This controls camera light sensitivity. It is measured in film camera equivalents. Low values are for stationary or brightly lit objects. Higher values are for fast moving or poorly lit objects. Anti shake Video stabilisation Activate or deactivate anti shake. Anti shake helps focus when the camera is moving. Auto night detection Set the device to automatically detect darker conditions and adjust the brightness of the photo without the flash. Save as Set the device to delete the original photo when taking photos with rich tone mode. GPS tag Attach a GPS location tag to the photo. Activate this feature when taking photos to create albums in Story Album. To improve GPS signals avoid shooting in locations where the signal may be obstructed such as between buildings or in low lying areas or in poor weather conditions. Your location may appear on your photos when you upload them to the Internet. To avoid this deactivate the GPS tag setting. Media Review Briefly display photos taken. Volume key Set the device to use the Volume button to control the shutter or zoom function. Timer Use this for delayed time shots. White balance Select an appropriate white balance so images have a true to life colour range. The settings are designed for specific lighting situations. These settings are similar to the heat range for white balance exposure in professional cameras. Exposure value Change the exposure value. This determines how much light the camera s sensor receives. For low light situations use a higher exposure. Guidelines Display viewfinder guides to help composition when selecting subjects. Flash Activate or deactivate the flash. Voice control Set the camera to take photos with voice commands. Contextual filename Set the camera to display contextual tags. Activate this to use Tag Buddy in Gallery and Story Album. Save as flipped Invert the image to create a mirror image of the original scene. Storage Select the memory location for storage. Reset Reset the camera settings. Shortcuts Reorganise shortcuts for easy access to the camera s various options. Tap Edit quick settings. Tap and hold an option and drag it to a slot at the top of the screen. The other icons can be moved within the list by tapping and dragging them. Media Gallery Use this application to view images and videos. Tap Gallery on the Applications screen. Some file formats are not supported depending on the software installed on the device. Some files may not play properly depending on how they are encoded. Viewing images Launching Gallery displays available folders. When another application such as Email saves an image the Download folder is automatically created to contain the image. Likewise capturing a screenshot automatically creates the Screenshots folder. Select a folder to open it. In a folder images are displayed by creation date. Select an image to view it in full screen. Scroll left or right to view the next or previous image. Zooming in and out Use one of the following methods to zoom in an image Double tap anywhere to zoom in. Spread two fingers apart on any place to zoom in. Pinch to zoom out or double tap to return. Viewing images using the motion feature Use the motion feature to execute a function with particular motion. On the Applications screen tap Settings My device Motions and gestures Motion drag the Motion switch to the right and then turn on the switch for each feature. To stop using a motion feature turn off the switch for the feature. Playing videos Video files show the icon on the preview. Select a video to watch it and tap. Media Trimming segments of a video Select a video and then tap. Move the start bracket to the desired starting point move the end bracket to the desired ending point and then save the video. Editing images When viewing an image tap and use the following functions Favourite Add the image to favourites. Slideshow Start a slideshow with the images in the current folder. Photo frame Use this to write a note below the image. The edited image is saved in the Photo frame folder. Photo note Use this to write a note on the back of the image. Tap to edit the note. Copy to clipboard Copy to clipboard. Print Print via a USB or Wi Fi connection. The device is only compatible with some Samsung printers. Rename Rename the file. Set as Set the image as wallpaper or a contact image. Buddy photo share Send the image to a person whose face is tagged in the image. Rotate left Rotate anticlockwise. Rotate right Rotate clockwise. Crop Resize the orange frame to crop and save the image in it. Detect text Launch Optical Reader to extract text from the image. Scan for nearby devices Search for devices that have media sharing activated. Details View image details. Settings Change the Gallery settings. Media Modifying images When viewing an image tap and use the following functions Rotate Rotate the image. Crop Crop the image. Colour Adjust the saturation or brightness of the image. Effect Apply effects to the image. Portrait Correct red eye adjust and retouch faces or make background blurry. Sticker Attach stickers. Drawing Draw on the image. Frame Apply frames to the image. Favourite images When viewing an image tap Favourite to add the image to the favourites list. Deleting images Use one of the following methods In a folder tap Select item select images by ticking and then tap. When viewing an image tap. Sharing images Use one of the following methods In a folder tap Select item select images by ticking and then tap to send them to others. When viewing an image tap to send it to others or share it via social network services. Media Setting as wallpaper When viewing an image tap Set as to set the image as wallpaper or to assign it to a contact. Tagging faces Tap Settings and then tick Face tag. A yellow frame appears around the recognised face on an image. Tap the face tap Add name and then select or add a contact. When the face tag appears on an image tap the face tag and use available options such as making calls or sending messages. Face recognition may fail depending on the face angle face size skin colour facial expression light conditions or accessories the subject is wearing. Using Tag Buddy Tap Settings Tag buddy and then drag the Tag buddy switch to the right to display a contextual tag weather location date and person s name when opening an image. Story Album Use this application to create your own digital album to keep your stories by organising the images neatly and automatically. Tap Story Album on the Applications screen. Creating story albums Tap Create album By tag information to create a story album automatically. Select criteria and then tap Find pictures. Enter a title for the album select a theme and then tap Create album. To create it manually tap Create album From Gallery. Media Creating recommended albums When you take photos at one location the device automatically sorts your photos into albums based on your specified criteria and suggests making the new albums. Tap Settings Home city and then set a method for recognising your location. Select an album type and set a minimum number of photos. When you take photos that meet the criteria you set the device will suggest making an album. Tap Create album From suggestions. Select an album enter a title for the album and then tap Save. The device will recommend making story albums when you surpass the preset number of photos in a single day. Viewing story albums Select a story album. The cover image appears on the first page. Scroll left or right to view images in the story album. When viewing an image tap and use the following functions Add content Add more content to the current page. Remove content Delete content on the current page. Change theme Change the theme for the page layout. Slideshow Start a slideshow with the images in the current album. Share via Send the album to others. Print Print the album via a USB or Wi Fi connection. The device is only compatible with some Samsung printers. Order photo book Place an order for a printed album. Export Export the album to other storage locations. Delete album Delete the album. Media Editing images Tap the image of the page in an album. To add a caption tap. To send the image to others tap. To delete the image tap. To apply effects to the image tap. To start a slideshow tap Slideshow Start slideshow. To set the image as an album cover image tap Set as cover. To rotate the image anticlockwise tap Rotate left. To rotate the image clockwise tap Rotate right. Video Use this application to play video files. Tap Video on the Applications screen. Avoid locking the device s screen while playing a DivX Video On Demand. Each time you lock the screen while playing a DivX Video On Demand one of your available rental counts is lost. Some file formats are not supported depending on the device s software. Some files may not play properly depending on how they are encoded. Media Playing videos Select a video to play. Scan DLNA enabled Adjust the volume. devices. Move forwards or Skip to the next backwards by video. Tap and hold dragging the bar. to move forwards quickly. Change screen ratio. Reduce the size of the video screen. Restart the current Pause and resume video or skip to the playback. previous video. Tap and hold to move backwards quickly. Deleting videos Tap Delete select videos by ticking and then tap Delete. Sharing videos Tap Share via select videos by ticking tap Done and then select a sharing method. Using Popup Video player Use this feature to use other applications without closing the video player. While watching videos tap to use the pop up player. Spread two fingers apart on the screen to enlarge the player or pinch to reduce it. To move the player drag the player to another location. Purchasing videos Tap Download Go to store and then select a video. Media YouTube Use this application to watch videos from the YouTube website. Tap YouTube on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Watching videos Tap and then enter a keyword. Select one of the returned search results to watch a video. Rotate the device to landscape orientation to display full screen. Add the video to the playlist. Search for videos. Send the URL to Pause or resume others. playback. Move forwards or backwards by dragging the bar. Rotate the screen to portrait Change display orientation. quality. Sharing videos Select the video to view tap and then select a sharing method. Uploading videos Select your account tap select a video enter information for the video and then tap. Media Flipboard Use this application to access your personalised magazines. Tap Flipboard on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. To start your Flipboard flick up on the greeting page select news topics and then tap Done. Select a cover story or a topic flick through the Flipboard pages and then select an article to read. While reading an article use the following icons Go to the previous page. Set the article as your likes in Facebook. View others comments about the article. Share the article with others. Application media stores Play Store Use this application to purchase and download applications and games that are able to run on the device. Tap Play Store on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Installing applications Browse applications by category or tap to search with a keyword. Select an application to view information. To download it tap Install. If there is a charge for the application tap the price and follow on screen instructions to complete the purchase process. When a new version is available for any installed application an update icon appears at the top of the screen to alert you to the update. Open the notifications panel and tap the icon to update the application. To install applications that you downloaded from other sources on the Applications screen tap Settings More Security Unknown sources. Uninstalling applications Uninstall the applications purchased from Play Store. Tap My Apps select an application to delete in the list of installed applications and then tap Uninstall. Application media stores Samsung Hub Use this application to purchase and download multimedia content. You can also manage the content on the device. Tap Samsung Hub on the Applications screen. Purchasing multimedia content Select a service category select media content and then complete the purchase process. Managing content on the device Select a service category scroll left and then manage content on the device. Samsung Apps Use this application to purchase and download dedicated Samsung applications. For more information visit www.samsungapps.com. Tap Samsung Apps on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Installing applications Browse applications by category. Tap to select a category. To search for an application tap at the top of the screen and then enter a keyword in the search field. Select an application to view information. To download it tap Get or Buy. When a new version is available for any installed application an update icon appears at the top of the screen to alert you to the update. Open the notifications panel and tap the icon to update the application. Application media stores Play Books Use this application to read and download book files. Tap Play Books on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Select a book file by scrolling left or right. While reading a book file tap to access additional options. To purchase book files tap. Play Movies Use this application to watch download and rent movies or TV shows. Tap Play Movies on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Select a category at the top of the screen and then select a movie TV programme or video to play or rent. Application media stores Play Music Use this application to listen to music from the device or stream music from the Google cloud service. Tap Play Music on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Play music by selecting a music category or share songs with others by uploading them to the Google cloud storage. Play Magazines Use this application to read and download magazines. Tap Play Magazines on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Select a category and then select a magazine. Utilities S Memo Use this application to create a memo using images and voice recordings. Tap S Memo on the Applications screen. Composing memos Create memos with enriched content by drawing sketches with your finger or adding images or voice memos. Tap to write or draw on the screen or tap to enter text with the keyboard. Erase the memo. Enter a memo. Undo and redo the last action. Jot down or draw a memo. Make a voice recording to insert. Insert a multimedia file. Append another page to the current memo. Switch to view mode. Utilities When jotting down a memo tap once more to change the pen type line thickness or pen colour. When erasing the handwritten memo tap and then tap to change the eraser size or tap Clear all to clear the memo. Save the current setting as a pen Change the pen type. profile. Change the line thickness. Change the pen colour. View more colours. To change the sheet background tap Change background. To add tags tap Add tag. Inserting multimedia files or a voice recording Tap to insert multimedia files. Tap to insert a voice recording. Browsing memos Browse memo thumbnails by scrolling up or down. To search for a memo tap Search. To delete memos tap Delete. To sort memos by date title tag or others tap Sort by. Utilities To change the view mode tap List view. To create a memo by importing a file tap Import. To export memos as another file format tap Export. To create a folder tap Create folder. To move memos to another folder tap Move. To copy memos tap Copy. To change the S Memo settings tap Settings. To access help information for S Memo tap Help. Viewing a memo Tap the memo thumbnail to open it. To delete memos tap Delete. To send the memo to others tap Share via. To save the memo as an image file or a PDF file tap Export. To add the memo as your favourites list tap Add to Favourites. To save the memo as an event tap Create event. To set the memo as a widget or wallpaper for the Home screen tap Set as. To print the memo via a USB or Wi Fi connection tap Print. The device is only compatible with some Samsung printers. To edit the memo tap. To play the voice recording tap. Utilities S Planner Use this application to manage events and tasks. Tap S Planner on the Applications screen. Creating events or tasks Tap and then use one of the following methods Add event Enter an event with an optional repeat setting. Add task Enter a task with an optional priority setting. To add an event or task more briefly tap a date to select it and tap it again. Enter a title and specify which calendar to use or sync with. Then tap Edit event details or Edit task details to add more details such as how often the event repeats when it has an advance alert or where it takes place. Invite others to the event by sending a message or email. Enter the phone number or email address to the Participants field or tap to open the contacts list. Utilities Attach a map showing the location of the event. Enter the location in the Location field tap next to the field and then pinpoint the precise location by tapping and holding on the map that appears. Attach a memo from S Memo. Tap Memos and then compose a new memo or select one of the existing memos. Attach an image. Tap Images and then take a photo or select one of the existing images. Attaching memos to a date Tap and hold a date to select it and the memo pad appears. Syncing with Google Calendar On the Applications screen tap Settings Accounts Google under My accounts a Google account Sync Calendar. To manually sync for updating on the Applications screen tap S Planner Sync. To display synced event or tasks tap Settings Calendars Display tick the Google account and then tap Done. Utilities Changing calendar type Select one from among different types of calendars including year month week and others at the right side of the screen. A pinch gesture can be used to change calendar type. For example pinch to change from the monthly calendar to the yearly calendar and spread apart to change yearly calendar back to monthly calendar. Searching for events Tap Search and then enter a keyword to search for. To view today s events tap Today at the top of the screen. Deleting events Select a date or event and then tap Delete. Sharing events Select an event tap Share via and then select a sharing method. Dropbox Use this application to save and share files with others via the Dropbox cloud storage. When you save files to Dropbox your device automatically syncs with the web server and any other computers that have Dropbox installed. Tap Dropbox on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. When running Dropbox for the first time tap Start to activate it. Follow the on screen instructions to complete the setup. Once Dropbox is activated photos and videos taken with the device s camera are uploaded to Dropbox automatically. To view the uploaded photos or videos tap. To share or delete files or create albums tap and then select files. Utilities To upload files to Dropbox tap Upload here Photos or videos or Other files. To open files in Dropbox select a file. While viewing images or videos tap to add it to the favourites list. To open files in the favourites list tap. Cloud Use this feature to sync files or back up settings and application data with your Samsung account or Dropbox. On the Applications screen tap Settings Accounts Cloud. This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Syncing with the Samsung account Tap your Samsung account or Sync settings to sync files. Backing up or restoring data Tap Backup to back up or restore data with your Samsung account. Syncing with Dropbox Tap Link Dropbox account and then enter the Dropbox account. Follow the on screen instructions to complete the setup. Once you sign in tap Allow and the device automatically syncs files with Dropbox whenever you make some changes. Utilities Clock Use this application to set alarms check the time in any location in the world measure the duration of an event set a timer or use as the desk clock. Tap Clock on the Applications screen. Turn this alarm on or off. Alarm Setting alarms Tap Create alarm set a time for the alarm to go off select days for the alarm to repeat and then tap Save. Location alarm Set a location. The alarm goes off only when you are in the location. Snooze Set an interval and the number of times for the alarm to repeat after the preset time. Smart alarm Set a time for the alarm to go off before the preset time. Utilities Stopping alarms Drag outside the large circle to stop an alarm. Drag outside the large circle to repeat the alarm after a specified length of time. Deleting alarms Tap and hold the alarm and then tap Delete. World clock Creating clocks Tap Add city and then enter a city name or select a city from the cities list. To apply summer time tap and hold a clock and then tap DST settings. Deleting clocks Tap and hold the clock and then tap Delete. Stopwatch Tap Start to time an event. Tap Lap to record lap times. Tap Reset to clear lap time records. Timer Set the duration and then tap Start. Drag outside the large circle when the timer goes off. Desk clock Tap to view in full screen. Utilities Calculator Use this application for simple or complex calculations. Tap Calculator on the Applications screen. Rotate the device to landscape orientation to display the scientific calculator. If Screen rotation is disabled tap Scientific calculator. To see calculation history tap to hide the keypad. To clear history tap Clear history. To change the character size for history tap Text size. S Health Use this application to monitor your health. Tap S Health on the Applications screen. Setting profile Tap Next read and agree to the terms and conditions and then tap Next. Enter your physical statistics and then tap Start. Based on your physical statistics the device calculates your basal metabolic rate BMR and recommends a daily caloric intake. The recommendation may not be accurate for all ages body compositions or nutritional needs. Checking your health information You can view your information on the health board screen. Select one of the following to view details Calories burnt View how many calories you have burned. Calorie intake View how many calories you have ingested. Utilities Viewing recommended temperature and humidity Tap Comfort level to view the ideal environment for temperature and humidity that the device recommends. Measure the temperature and humidity in a stable indoor environment. The temperature and humidity may vary depending on the ambient environment device temperature or your physical contact with the device. Measurements may take some time if there are sudden changes in temperature or humidity. For accurate measurements use a thermo hygrometer. Managing calories Tap Walking mate to count your steps or tap Exercise mate and enter your exercise history. You can view consumed calories. To view exercise history on a graph tap the icon at the bottom right. You may experience a brief delay while the walking mate monitors your steps and then displays your step count. If you use the walking mate while travelling by car or train vibration may affect your step count. Tap Food tracker and enter the foods you have eaten. You can view your calorie intake. To view calorie history on a graph tap the icon at the bottom right. Managing vital statistics Tap Weight and then enter a value. You can view current statistics. To view statistic history on a graph tap the icon at the bottom right. To add menus to the S Health menu bar tap Settings Add more features. Utilities Configuring settings for S Health Tap Settings and then select one of the following Edit profile Edit your physical statistics. Security Set a PIN to lock or unlock S Health. Unit settings Set unit options. Add more features Select and download additional menus that appear on the S Health menu bar. Calories burnt shortcut Set a menu to move when you tap Calories burnt on the health board screen. Compatible products View and manage device connections. Reset data Reset S Health data. Terms of use View the terms and conditions including personal information and data retention policies. About S Health View information about S Health. S Translator Use this application to translate text into other languages. Tap S Translator on the Applications screen. Using S Translator Set the source and target languages enter text in the input field and then tap. To add a language pair to your favourites list tap. To send a language pair to others tap. Utilities Starting a conversation with the translator Tap the buttons at the bottom of the screen to communicate with another person via spoken translation. Tap Speak for your language and then speak into the microphone. The device will translate what you say. Tap in the target language field to let the device read the translation out loud. Then tap Speak for the language of the person you are talking with and let the person reply in their language. The device will translate what they say. Tap in the source language field to let the device read it back to you. Voice Recorder Use this application to record or play voice memos. Tap Voice Recorder on the Applications screen. Recording voice memos Tap to start recording. Speak into the microphone at the bottom of the device. Tap to pause recording. Tap to finish recording. Recording elapsed time Change the recording quality. Display the list of voice memos. Start recording. Utilities Playing voice memos Select a voice memo to play. Trim the voice memo. Adjust the playback speed. Pause playback. Skip seconds backwards or forwards. Skip to the previous or next voice memo. To send a voice memo to others tap Share via and then select a sharing method. Managing voice memos In the list of voice memos tap and select one of the following Share via Select voice memos to send and then select a sharing method. Delete Select voice memos to delete. Settings Change the voice recorder settings. End Close the voice recorder. Saving files with contextual tags In the list of voice memos tap Settings Contextual filename On. S Voice Use this application to command the device by voice to dial a number send a message write a memo and more. Tap S Voice on the Applications screen. Alternatively press the Home button twice. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Utilities Here are several examples of spoken commands Open music Launch calculator Call Lulu mobile Dial Lulu work Check schedule Tips for better voice recognition Speak clearly. Speak in quiet places. Do not use offensive or slang words. Avoid speaking in dialectal accents. The device may not recognise your commands or may perform unwanted commands depending on your surroundings or how you speak. Driving mode In driving mode the device will read content aloud when you have incoming calls messages and notifications so you can use the device without hands while driving. For example the device will read aloud the caller s name or phone number when a call comes in. To activate driving mode say Driving mode on or tap Set driving mode on. To activate driving mode automatically in specific places tap Settings Driving mode My place for Driving mode Set my place. Deactivate driving mode when not in use to prevent the device from reading content aloud. To deactivate driving mode tap Settings Driving mode and then drag the Driving mode switch to the left. Utilities Google Use this application to search not only the Internet but also applications and their contents on the device as well. Tap Google on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Searching the device Tap the search field and then enter a keyword. Alternatively tap and then speak a keyword. If no results are returned from the applications the web browser appears displaying the search results. To search with an image tap Search with camera. Aim the rear camera at an image and then tap. Search scope To select what applications to search tap Settings Phone search and then tick the items to search for. Google Now Launch Google search to view Google Now cards that show the current weather public transit info your next appointment and more when you are most likely to need it. Join Google Now when opening Google search for the first time. To change Google Now settings tap Settings Google Now. Utilities Voice Search Use this application to search webpages by speaking. Tap Voice Search on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Speak a keyword or phrase when Speak now appears on the screen. My Files Use this application to access all kinds of files stored in the device including images videos songs and sound clips. Tap My Files on the Applications screen. Viewing files Select a folder to open it. To go back to the parent folder tap. To return to the root directory tap. In a folder tap and then use one of the following options Select all Select all files to apply the same option to them at once. Create folder Create a folder. Search Search for files. View by Change the view mode. Sort by Sort files or folders. Settings Change the file manager settings. Utilities Adding shortcuts to folders Add a shortcut of frequently used folders to the root directory. Tap Add shortcut enter a shortcut name select a folder and then tap Set here. Downloads Use this application to see what files are downloaded through the applications. Tap Downloads on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Select a file to open it with an appropriate application. To sort the files by size tap Sort by size. To sort the files by date tap Sort by date. TripAdvisor Use this application to get travel information such as destination or hotel. You can also book for a room and share your reviews with others. Tap TripAdvisor on the Applications screen. Utilities Optical Reader Use this application to scan or extract text or data from images documents business cards or QR codes. Tap Optical Reader on the Applications screen. To select languages to recognise tap Language settings. Scanning text Aim the pointer at an image document or QR code. Text View the definition of extracted words. Business cards Make calls or send messages from the scanned contact information. QR codes View information for QR codes. Some QR codes may not be recognised. The following types of text may not be recognised handwriting small fonts graphic fonts cursive text or text in images. Extracting and translating text Tap and then select the languages to translate. Tap aim the rear camera at some text and then tap to capture an image of the text. To capture a large text image that does not fit within the viewfinder tap to capture the image in multiple sections. Tap the highlighted word to translate it. Tap to extract the text from the image. Travel local Maps Use this application to pinpoint the location of the device search for places or get directions. Tap Maps on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Searching for locations Tap enter an address and then tap. Select a location to view the detailed location information. To search for nearby locations tap. Once the location is found tap and use one of the following functions Clear Map Clear the map. Make available offline Save the map of a specified area to view it offline. Directions Get directions for the location. Layers Overlay multiple layers including satellite images traffic information and more. Settings Change the map settings. Help View information about using the map. To view current location tap. Travel local Getting directions for a destination Tap. Tap and then select a method to enter starting and ending locations My current location Use current location for starting location. Contacts Select from the contacts list. Point on map Pinpoint by tapping on the map. My Places Select from the list of favourite places. Select a travel method such as driving public transit or walking and then tap GET DIRECTIONS. Select one of the routes that appear and then tap MAP VIEW to view details. Local Use this application to search for nearby restaurants banks bus stops and more. Tap Local on the Applications screen. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Select a place category and then select a place from the list of search results. Map Pinpoint the place on the map. Directions Search for a route to the place. Call Call the place s phone number. To add a place category tap Add a search on the category list and then enter a keyword to search into the text field. Travel local Navigation Use this application to search for a route to a destination. Tap Navigation on the Applications screen. Navigation maps your current location and other navigational data may differ from actual location information. You should always pay attention to road conditions traffic and any other factors that may affect your driving. Follow all safety warnings and regulations while driving. This application may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Specify the destination by using one of the following methods Speak the destination address. Enter the destination address. Select the destination address from the contacts list. Select the destination from the list of starred places. Once a route is found follow on screen instructions to navigate to the destination. Settings About Settings Use this application to configure the device set application options and add accounts. Tap Settings on the Applications screen. Connections Wi Fi Activate the Wi Fi feature to connect to a Wi Fi network and access the Internet or other network devices. To use options tap Wi Fi. Advanced Customise Wi Fi settings. WPS push button Connect to a secured Wi Fi network with a WPS button. WPS PIN entry Connect to a secured Wi Fi network with a WPS PIN. Help Access help information for Wi Fi. Setting Wi Fi sleep policy Tap Wi Fi Advanced Keep Wi Fi on during sleep. When the screen is turned off the device automatically turns off Wi Fi connections. When this happens the device automatically accesses data networks if it is set to use them. This may incur data transfer fees. To avoid data usage bills set this option to Always. Settings Setting Network notification The device can detect open Wi Fi networks and display an icon on the status bar to notify when available. Tap Wi Fi Advanced and tick Network notification to activate this feature. Wi Fi Direct Wi Fi Direct connects two devices directly via a Wi Fi network without requiring an access point. Tap Wi Fi Wi Fi Direct. Bluetooth Activate the Bluetooth feature to exchange information over short distances. To use more options tap. Visibility timeout Set duration that the device is visible. Received files View received files via the Bluetooth feature. Help Access help information for Bluetooth. Data usage Keep track of your data usage amount and customise the settings for the limitation. Mobile data Set the device to use data connections on any mobile network. Set mobile data limit Set a limit for the mobile data usage. Data usage cycle Enter monthly reset date to monitor your data usage. To use more options tap. Data roaming Set the device to use data connections when you are roaming. Restrict background data Set the device to disable sync in the background while using a mobile network. Auto sync data Set the device to sync contact calendar email bookmark and social network image data automatically. Settings Show Wi Fi usage Set the device to show your data usage via Wi Fi. Mobile hotspots Select Wi Fi hotspots to prevent applications that are running in the background from using them. More networks Customise settings to control networks. Flight mode This disables all wireless functions on your device. You can use only non network services. Mobile networks Mobile data Use to allow packet switching data networks for network services. Data roaming Use the device to connect to another network when you are roaming or your home network is not available. Access Point Names Set up access point names APNs. Network mode Select a network type. Network operators Search for available networks and select a network for roaming. Tethering and portable hotspot Portable Wi Fi hotspot Use the portable Wi Fi hotspot to share the device s mobile network connection with computers or other devices through the Wi Fi network. USB tethering Use USB tethering to share the device s mobile network connection with a computer via USB. When connected to a computer the device is used as a wireless modem for the computer. Bluetooth tethering Use the Bluetooth tethering to share the device s mobile network connection with computers via Bluetooth. Help Learn more about USB Wi Fi and Bluetooth tethering. VPN Set up and connect to virtual private networks VPNs. Settings NFC NFC Activate the NFC feature to read or write NFC tags that contain information. Android Beam Turn on the Android Beam feature to send data such as webpages and contacts to NFC enabled devices. NFC payment Set the default payment method. S Beam Activate the S Beam feature to send data such as videos images and documents to devices that support NFC and Wi Fi Direct. Nearby devices File sharing Activate media sharing to allow other DLNA enabled devices to access media files on your device. Shared contents Set the device to share your content with other devices. Allowed devices list View the list of devices that can access your device. Not allowed devices list View the list of devices that are blocked from accessing your device. Download to Select a memory location for saving media files. Upload from other devices Set the device to accept uploads from other devices. Screen Mirroring Activate the screen mirroring feature and share your display with others. Kies via Wi Fi Connect the device to Samsung Kies via a Wi Fi network. Settings My device Lock screen Change settings for the locked screen. Available options may vary depending on the screen lock feature selected. Screen lock Activate the screen lock feature. Multiple widgets Set the device to allow use of widgets on the locked screen. Lock screen widgets These settings are applied only when you set the swipe lock option. Favourite apps or Camera Set the device to show shortcuts for each application or launch the camera application automatically when you swipe panels to the left on the locked screen. Clock or personal message Set the device to show a clock or personal message on the locked screen. The following options may vary depending on your selection. For a personal message Edit personal message Edit the personal message. For a clock Dual clock Set the device to show the dual clock. Clock size Change the size of the clock. Show date Set the device to show the date with the clock. Owner information Enter your information that is shown with the clock. Shortcuts Set the device to show and edit application shortcuts on the locked screen. This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Settings Unlock effect Select an effect when you unlock the screen. Help text Set the device to show the help text on the locked screen. Wake up in lock screen Set the device to recognise your wake up command when the screen is locked. Set wake up command Set a wake up command to launch S Voice or perform a specified function. Display Change the settings for the display. Wallpaper Home screen Select a background image for the Home screen. Lock screen Select a background image for the locked screen. Home and lock screens Select a background image for the Home screen and the locked screen. Notification panel Customise the items that appear on the notifications panel. Multi window Set the device to use Multi Window. Screen mode Adapt display Use this mode for optimising the display according to the display settings. Dynamic Use this mode to make the display tone more vivid. Standard Use this mode for normal surroundings. Professional photo Use this mode to make the display tone look like real colours. Movie Use this mode for dim surroundings such as in a dark room. Settings Brightness Set the brightness of the display. Auto rotate screen Set the content to rotate automatically when the device is turned. Screen timeout Set the length of time the device waits before turning off the display s backlight. Daydream Set the device to launch a screensaver when your device is connected to a desktop dock or charging. Font style Change the font type for display text. Font size Change the font size. Touch key light duration Set the duration for the touch button backlight. Display battery percentage Set the device to display the remaining battery life. Edit after screen capture Set the device to edit the screenshot after capturing it. Auto adjust screen tone Set the device to save power by adjusting the brightness of the display. High touch sensitivity Set the device to increase the sensitivity so you can use the touch screen with gloves on. Depending on the type of material you wear while touching the device some commands may not be recognised. LED indicator Charging Set the device to turn on the notification light while you are charging the battery. Low battery Set the device to turn on the notification light when the battery is low. Notifications Set the device to turn on the notification light when you have missed calls messages or notifications. Voice recording Set the device to turn on the notification light when you record voice memos. Settings Sound Change settings for various sounds on the device. Volume Adjust the volume level for call ringtones music and videos system sounds and notifications. Vibration intensity Adjust the force of the vibration notification. Ringtones Select a ringtone to alert you to incoming calls. Vibrations Add or select a vibration pattern. Default notification sound Select a ringtone for events such as incoming messages and missed calls. Vibrate when ringing Set the device to vibrate and play a ringtone for incoming calls. Dialling keypad tone Set the device to sound when tapping the buttons on the keypad. Touch sounds Set the device to sound when selecting an application or option on the touch screen. Screen lock sound Set the device to sound when locking or unlocking the touch screen. Haptic feedback Set the device to vibrate when touching keys. Adapt Sound Personalise the sound for the ear you use most during calls or while listening to music. Home screen mode Select a Home screen mode basic or easy. Settings Call Customise the settings for calling features. Call rejection Reject calls from specified phone numbers automatically. Add phone numbers to the reject list. Set up call reject messages Add or edit the message sent when you reject a call. Answering ending calls The home key answers calls Set the device to answer an incoming call when pressing the Home button. Voice control Set the device to answer or reject an incoming call with voice commands. The power key ends calls Set the device to end a call when pressing the Power button. Turn off screen during calls Set the device to turn on the proximity sensor during a call. Call alerts Answer vibration Set the device to vibrate when the other party answers a call. Call end vibration Set the device to vibrate when the other party ends a call. Call connect tone Activate or deactivate the call connection tone. Minute minder Activate or deactivate the minute minder tone. Call end tone Activate or deactivate the call disconnection tone. Alerts during calls Set the device to alert you to events during a call. Call accessories Automatic answering Set the device to answer automatically after a specified period available only when a headset is connected. Automatic answering timer Select the length of time that the device waits before answering calls. Settings Outgoing call conditions Set the device to allow outgoing calls with a Bluetooth headset even when your device is locked. Outgoing call type Select the type of outgoing calls to make you use a Bluetooth headset. Additional settings Caller ID Display your caller ID to other parties for outgoing calls. Call forwarding Divert incoming calls to another number. Auto area code Set the device to insert a prefix area or country code automatically before a phone number. Call barring Block incoming or outgoing calls. Call waiting Allow incoming call alerts when a call is in progress. Auto redial Activate auto redial for calls that were not connected or that were cut off. Fixed Dialling Numbers Activate or deactivate FDN mode to restrict calls to numbers in the FDN list. Enter the PIN supplied with your SIM or USIM card. Ringtones and keypad tones Ringtones Select a ringtone to alert you to incoming calls. Vibrations Add or select a vibration pattern. Vibrate when ringing Set the device to vibrate and play a ringtone for incoming calls. Keypad tones Set the device to sound when tapping the buttons on the keypad. Personalise call sound Select a type of call sound to use with a headset. Noise reduction Set the device to remove background noise so that the other party can hear you more clearly. Increase volume in pocket Set the device to raise the ringtone volume when the device is in an enclosed such as a bag or pocket. Video call image Select an image to be shown to the other party. Use call fail options Choose to try a voice call when a video call fails to connect. Voicemail service Select or set your voicemail service provider. Settings Voicemail settings Enter the number to access the voicemail service. Obtain this number from the service provider. Sound Select a ringtone to alert you to new voicemails. Vibrate Set the device to vibrate when voicemails are received. Accounts Set the device to accept IP calls and set up your accounts for IP call services. Use Internet calling Set whether to use IP call services for all calls or only for IP calls. Blocking mode Select which notifications will be blocked or set to allow notifications for calls from specified contacts in blocking mode. Safety assistance Set the device to send a message to recipients in an emergency. Press and hold the Volume up button and the Volume down button for seconds to send the message. Edit emergency message Edit the message that will be sent when you are in an emergency. Send emergency pictures Set the device to take photos and send them along with the message to the recipients. This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider. Message interval Set an interval for resending the message. Emergency contacts Select or edit the recipients for the message. Power saving mode Activate power saving mode and change the settings for power saving mode. CPU power saving Set the device to limit some system resource usage. Screen power saving Set the device to decrease the brightness of the display. Turn off haptic feedback Set the device to turn off the vibration when touching keys. Learn about Power saving mode Discover how to reduce battery consumption. Settings Accessory Change the accessory settings. Dock sound Set the device to play a sound when your device is connected to or removed from a desktop dock. Audio output mode Set the device to use the dock speaker when your device is connected to a desktop dock. Desk home screen display Set the device to show the desk clock when your device is connected to a desktop dock. Automatic unlock Set the device to unlock automatically when the cover is flipped open. Audio output Select a sound output format to use when connecting your device to HDMI devices. Some devices may not support the surround sound setting. Accessibility Accessibility services are special features for those with certain physical disabilities. Access and alert the following settings to improve accessibility to the device. Auto rotate screen Set the interface to rotate automatically when you rotate the device. Screen timeout Set the length of time the device waits before turning off the display s backlight. Speak passwords Set the device to read aloud passwords you enter with Talkback. Answering ending calls The home key answers calls Set the device to answer an incoming call when pressing the Home button. Answer calls by tapping Set the device to answer an incoming call when tapping the call accept button twice. Voice control Set the device to answer or reject an incoming call with voice commands. The power key ends calls Set the device to end a call when pressing the Power button. Settings Show shortcut Add a shortcut to Accessibility on the quick menu that appears when you press and hold the Power button. Manage accessibility Export or import the accessibility settings to share them with other devices. TalkBack Activate Talkback which provides voice feedback. Font size Change the font size. Magnification gestures Set the device to zoom in and out with finger gestures. Negative colours Reverse the display colours to improve visibility. Colour adjustment Adjust the colour scheme for the screen when the device determines that you are colour blind or having difficulty reading content. Accessibility shortcut Set the device to activate Talkback when you press and hold the Power button and then tap and hold the screen with two fingers. Text to speech options Preferred TTS engine Select a speech synthesis engine. To change the settings for speech synthesis engines tap. Speech rate Select a speed for the text to speech feature. Listen to an example Listen to the spoken text for an example. Enhance web accessibility Set applications to install web scripts to make their web content more accessible. Sound balance Adjust the sound balance when using a dual headset. Mono audio Enable mono sound when listening to audio with one earbud. Turn off all sounds Mute all device sounds. Flash notification Set the flash to blink when you have incoming calls new messages or notifications. Assistant menu Set the device to show the assistive shortcut icon that helps you access functions supported by external buttons or features on the notifications panel. You can also edit the menu on the shortcut icon. Tap and hold delay Set the recognition time for tapping and holding the screen. Interaction control Set an area of the screen to be excluded from touch inputs. Settings Language and input Change the settings for text input. Some options may not be available depending on the selected language. Language Select a display language for all menus and applications. Default Select a default keyboard type for text input. Google voice typing To change the voice input settings tap. Choose input languages Select input languages for text input. Block offensive words Set the device to prevent the device from recognising offensive words in voice inputs. Download offline speech recognition Download and install language data for offline voice input. Samsung keyboard To change the Samsung keyboard settings tap. The available options may vary depending on the region or service provider. Portrait keyboard types Change the keyboard layout. Input languages Select languages for text input. Predictive text Activate predictive text mode to predict words based on your input and show word suggestions. You can also customise the word prediction settings. Continuous input Set the device to enter text by sweeping on the keyboard. Cursor control Enable or disable the smart keyboard navigation feature to move the cursor by scrolling the keyboard. Settings Handwriting Customise settings for handwriting mode such as recognition time pen thickness or pen colour. Advanced Auto capitalisation Set the device to automatically capitalise the first character after a final punctuation mark such as a full stop question mark or exclamation mark. Auto spacing Set the device to automatically insert a space between words. Auto punctuate Set the device to insert a full stop when you double tap the space bar. Character preview Set the device to display a large image of each character tapped. Key tap vibration Set the device to vibrate when a key is touched. Key tap sound Set the device to sound when a key is touched. Help Access help information for using the Samsung keyboard. Reset settings Reset Samsung keyboard settings. Voice recogniser Select a voice recognition engine. Voice search For Samsung voice recognition use the following options Language Select a language for the voice recognition. Open via the home key Set the device to launch S Voice by pressing the Home button twice. Use location data Set the device to use location information for voice search results. Hide offensive words Hide offensive words from voice search results. Help Access help information for S Voice. About View version information. Settings Driving mode Activate driving mode to set the device to read contents aloud and specify applications to use in driving mode. Voice control Control applications by voice commands. Auto start speaker Set the device to automatically turn on the speakerphone when making a call with S Voice. Show body of message Set the device to view the text of a new message received while in driving mode. Wake up command Set the device to start voice recognition by saying a wake up command while using S Voice. Wake up in lock screen Set the device to recognise your wake up command when the screen is locked. Set wake up command Set a wake up command to launch S Voice or perform a specified function. Check missed events Set the device to check missed calls messages or events when S Voice is launched by pressing the headset button. Home address Enter your home address to use location information with the voice command feature. Log in to Facebook Enter your Facebook account information. Log in to Twitter Enter your Twitter account information. For Google voice recognition use the following options Language Select a language for the voice recognition. Speech output Set the device to provide voice feedback to alert you to the current action. Block offensive words Hide offensive words from voice search results. Download offline speech recognition Download and install language data for offline voice input. Bluetooth headset Set the device to allow a voice search with a Bluetooth headset when it is connected to the device. Settings Text to speech options Preferred TTS engine Select a speech synthesis engine. To change the settings for speech synthesis engines tap. Speech rate Select a speed for the text to speech feature. Listen to an example Listen to the spoken text for an example. Pointer speed Adjust the pointer speed for the mouse or trackpad connected to your device. Motions and gestures Activate the motion recognition feature and change the settings that control motion recognition on your device. Air gesture Learn about sensor and icon View information about the gesture sensor and the indicator that appears while using the air gesture feature. Quick glance When the screen is turned off move your hand above the sensor to view notifications missed calls new messages time and date and more. Air jump While viewing emails or webpages move your hand up or down across the sensor to scroll the page up or down. Air browse Move your hand to the left or right across the sensor to browse images webpages songs or memos. Air move Tap and hold an icon with one hand and then move your other hand to the left or right across the sensor to move the icon to another location. Air call accept When a call comes in move your hand to the left and then to the right across the sensor to answer the call. Settings Motion Direct call Set the device to make a voice call by picking up and holding the device near your ear while viewing call message or contact details. Smart alert Set the device to alert you if you have missed calls or new messages when you pick up the device. Zoom Set the device to zoom in or out while viewing images in Gallery or browsing webpages when you tap and hold two points with your fingers and then tilt the device back and forth. Browse an image Set the device to scroll through an image by moving the device in any direction when the image is zoomed in. Mute Pause Set the device to mute incoming calls alarms and music by placing the device face down. Palm motion Capture screen Set the device to capture an image of the screen when you sweep your hand to the left or right across the screen. Mute Pause Set the device to pause media playback when you touch the screen with your palm. Gyroscope calibration Calibrate the gyroscope so your device can correctly recognise rotation. Place the device on a stable surface during calibration. The calibration process may fail if the device vibrates or moves. Calibrate the gyroscope when you experience drifting or unintended movements when using tilting or panning motions or motion enabled games. Smart screen Smart stay Set the device to prevent the display backlight from turning off while you are looking at the display. Smart rotation Set the interface not to rotate according to the orientation of your face. Smart pause Set the device to pause video playback when you look away from the screen. Settings Smart scroll Scroll by Select a method to scroll the screen up or down. Speed Adjust the speed for scrolling the screen. Visual Feedback display Set the device to display a signal icon when the device recognises your action. This feature may not work properly in bright light in dark conditions or when the device is being moved or shaken. Air view Preview content or view information in a pop up window by pointing at an item with your finger. Information preview View information in a pop up window by pointing at items with your finger. Progress preview While playing music or videos preview a scene or view the elapsed time by pointing at the progress bar with your finger. Speed dial preview View contact information of speed dial numbers in a pop up window by pointing at a speed dial number with your finger. Webpage magnifier While browsing the Internet magnify the content by pointing at the screen. Sound and haptic feedback Set the device to sound and vibrate when pointing at items with your finger. Voice control Change settings to control options by voice commands. Settings Accounts Add account Add email or SNS accounts. Cloud Change settings for syncing data or files with your Samsung account or Dropbox cloud storage. Backup and reset Change the settings for managing settings and data. Back up my data Set the device to back up settings and application data to the Google server. Backup account Set up or edit your Google backup account. Automatic restore Set the device to restore settings and application data when the applications are reinstalled on the device. Factory data reset Reset settings to the factory default values and delete all data. More Customise settings for location services security and other options. Location services Change settings for location information permissions. Access to my location Set the device to allow applications to use your current location information. Use GPS satellites Set the device to use the GPS satellite for finding the current location. Settings Wi Fi mobile network location Set the device to allow location data collection and to determine the location of your lost or stolen device via Wi Fi or mobile network. My places Set up profiles that will be used for specific locations when you use GPS Wi Fi or Bluetooth features to find your current location. Security Change settings for securing the device and the SIM or USIM card. Encrypt device Set a password to encrypt data saved on the device. You must enter the password each time you turn on the device. Charge the battery before enabling this setting because it may take more than an hour to encrypt your data. Encrypt external SD card Encrypt Set the device to encrypt files when you save them to a memory card. Full encryption Set the device to encrypt all files on a memory card. Exclude multimedia files Set the device to encrypt all files on a memory card except for media files. If you reset your device to the factory defaults with this setting enabled the device will not be able to read your encrypted files. Disable this setting before resetting the device. Remote controls Set the device to allow control of your lost or stolen device remotely via the Internet. To use this feature you must sign in to your Samsung account. Account registration Add or view your Samsung account. Wi Fi mobile network location Set the device to allow location data collection and to determine the location of your lost or stolen device via Wi Fi or mobile network. SIM Change Alert Activate or deactivate the Find my mobile feature which helps locate the device when lost or stolen. Settings Find my mobile web page Access the SamsungDive website www.samsungdive.com. You can track and control your lost or stolen device on the SamsungDive website. Set up SIM card lock Lock SIM card Activate or deactivate the PIN lock feature to require the PIN before using the device. Change SIM PIN Change the PIN used to access SIM or USIM data. Make passwords visible By default the device hides passwords for security. Set the device to display passwords as they are entered. Device administrators View device administrators installed on the device. You can allow device administrators to apply new policies to the device. Unknown sources Choose to install applications from any source. If not chosen download applications only from Play Store. Verify apps Set this to allow Google to check the application for harmful behaviour before installing it. Trusted credentials Use certificates and credentials to ensure secure use of various applications. Install from device storage Install encrypted certificates stored on the USB storage. Clear credentials Erase the credential contents from the device and reset the password. Application manager View and manage the applications on your device. Battery View the amount of battery power consumed by your device. Settings Storage View memory information for your device and memory card or format a memory card. Formatting a memory card permanently deletes all data from it. The actual available capacity of the internal memory is less than the specified capacity because the operating system and default applications occupy part of the memory. Date and time Access and alter the following settings to control how the device displays the time and date. If the battery remains fully discharged or removed from the device the time and date is reset. Automatic date and time Automatically update the time and date when moving across time zones. Set date Set the current date manually. Set time Set the current time manually. Automatic time zone Set the device to receive time zone information from the network when you move across time zones. Select time zone Set the home time zone. Use hour format Display time in hour format. Select date format Select a date format. About device Access device information and update device software. Troubleshooting When you turn on your device or while you are using the device it prompts you to enter one of the following codes Password When the device lock feature is enabled you must enter the password you set for the device. PIN When using the device for the first time or when the PIN requirement is enabled you must enter the PIN supplied with the SIM or USIM card. You can disable this feature by using the Lock SIM card menu. PUK Your SIM or USIM card is blocked usually as a result of entering your PIN incorrectly several times. You must enter the PUK supplied by your service provider. PIN When you access a menu requiring the PIN you must enter the PIN supplied with the SIM or USIM card. For details contact your service provider. Your device displays network or service error messages When you are in areas with weak signals or poor reception you may lose reception. Move to another area and try again. You cannot access some options without a subscription. Contact your service provider for more details. The touch screen responds slowly or improperly If your device has a touch screen and the touch screen is not responding properly try the following Remove any protective covers from the touch screen. Protective covers may prevent the device from recognising your inputs and are not recommended for touch screen devices. Ensure that your hands are clean and dry when tapping the touch screen. Restart your device to clear any temporary software bugs. Ensure that your device software is upgraded to the latest version. If the touch screen is scratched or damaged take it to your local Samsung Service Centre. Troubleshooting Your device freezes or has fatal errors If your device freezes or hangs you may need to close programs or reset the device to regain functionality. If your device is frozen and unresponsive press and hold the Power button for more than seconds. The device reboots automatically. If this does not solve the problem perform a factory data reset. On the Applications screen tap Settings Accounts Backup and reset Factory data reset Reset device Erase everything. Calls are being dropped When you are in areas with weak signals or poor reception you may lose your connection to the network. Move to another area and try again. Outgoing calls are not connected Ensure that you have pressed the Dial key. Ensure that you have accessed the right cellular network. Ensure that you have not set call barring for the phone number you are dialling. Incoming calls are not connected Ensure that your device is turned on. Ensure that you have accessed the right cellular network. Ensure that you have not set call barring for the incoming phone number. Others cannot hear you speaking on a call Ensure that you are not covering the built in microphone. Ensure that the microphone is close to your mouth. If using a headset ensure that it is properly connected. Troubleshooting Audio quality is poor Ensure that you are not blocking the device s internal antenna. When you are in areas with weak signals or poor reception you may lose reception. Move to another area and try again. When dialling from contacts the call is not connected Ensure that the correct number is stored in the contact list. Re enter and save the number if necessary. Ensure that you have not set call barring for the contact s phone number. The device beeps and the battery icon is empty Your battery is low. Recharge or replace the battery to continue using the device. The battery does not charge properly or the device turns off The battery terminals may be dirty. Wipe both gold coloured contacts with a clean soft cloth and try charging the battery again. If the battery no longer charges completely dispose of the old battery properly and replace it with a new battery refer to your local ordinances for proper disposal instructions. Your device is hot to the touch When you use applications that require more power or use applications on your device for an extended period of time your device may feel hot to the touch. This is normal and should not affect your device s lifespan or performance. Troubleshooting Error messages appear when launching the camera Your Samsung device must have sufficient available memory and battery power to operate the camera application. If you receive error messages when launching the camera try the following Charge the battery or replace it with a battery that is fully charged. Free some memory by transferring files to a computer or deleting files from your device. Restart the device. If you are still having trouble with the camera application after trying these tips contact a Samsung Service Centre. Error messages appear when opening music files Some music files may not play on your Samsung device for a variety of reasons. If you receive error messages when opening music files on your device try the following Free some memory by transferring files to a computer or deleting files from your device. Ensure that the music file is not Digital Rights Management DRM protected. If the file is DRM protected ensure that you have the appropriate licence or key to play the file. Ensure that your device supports the file type. Another Bluetooth device is not located Ensure that the Bluetooth wireless feature is activated on your device. Ensure that the Bluetooth wireless feature is activated on the device you wish to connect to if necessary. Ensure that your device and the other Bluetooth device are within the maximum Bluetooth range m. If the tips above do not solve the problem contact a Samsung Service Centre. Troubleshooting A connection is not established when you connect the device to a computer Ensure that the USB cable you are using is compatible with your device. Ensure that you have the proper drivers installed and updated on your computer. If you are a Windows XP user ensure that you have Windows XP Service Pack or higher installed on your computer. Ensure that you have Samsung Kies. or Windows Media Player or higher installed on your computer. A small gap appears around the outside of the device case This gap is a necessary manufacturing feature and some minor rocking or vibration of parts may occur. Over time friction between parts may cause this gap to expand slightly. Some content may differ from your device depending on the region service provider or software version and is subject to change without prior notice. www.samsung.com English EU Rev 