Handbook Copyright Samsung ElectronicsIntroduction Our smartphone has made our first family trip abroad so much more meaningful! So I would like to share some tips on how to get the most out of it. Mom Dad Daughter Son Table of Contents Capture two scenes at once Dual Camera Capture the action Drama Shot Make your photo come to life Sound Shot Record your story in photo Story Album Just come close your finger Air view Browse without touching Air Gesture Move your head Samsung Smart Scroll Samsung Smart Pause Share the joy Group Play Track calories S Health Control in the cold Capture two scenes at once Dual Camera The dual camera function lets me capture the beautiful landscape and a self portrait simultaneously. Yesterday I caught my son playing with the birds and my reaction all at the same time! Take two photos at once in Dual Camera mode Take a self portrait in amazing In the camera tap to switch to the dual camera mode. surroundings. The device uses the Line up the viewfinders and then take a photo. front and rear cameras to capture two scenes at once. Tap the inset image to adjust its size and location. Tap to change the style of the inset image. Capture the action Drama Shot Watching my son chasing pigeons around the public square I wish I could capture all his charming antics. Then I remember that the drama shot does just that! Take a dynamic photo with Drama Shot Use the drama shot to take a series In the camera tap MODE Drama to change to the of photos of a moving subject and drama shot and then take a photo. combine them into a photo that To get the best shot follow these tips. The device may not captures all the action. You can take photos properly in other shooting conditions. create an artistic and lively photo Hold the camera steady and remain still while taking photos. of a moving subject in the distance. Take photos of a subject that is moving in one direction. Take photos with backgrounds that are free of moving objects. Avoid taking photos of a subject and background with similar colours. Avoid taking photos of a subject that is too close or too far away to fit within the viewfinder or that is too long such as a bus or a train. Make your photo come to life Sound Shot Today is my daughter s birthday and we had a birthday party at our hotel. Thanks to the sound shot mode we could capture her reaction in both photo and sound. Add sound to your photos with Sound Shot mode Take a photo and record a few In the camera tap MODE Sound shot to change to seconds of audio with the sound the sound shot mode and then take a photo. shot mode. The audio really brings the photo to life. Tap to listen to the recorded audio again. Record your story in photo Story Album I end up taking so many photos that it s a big job to organise them all. Luckily the device automatically sorts my photos and turns them into an attractive photo album. Create a media album The device automatically sorts In the story album tap Create album By tag your photos into albums with information and enter details. Enter a title for the album your specified criteria and you can select the layout of photos and select a cover image and record details about them. then tap Create album. When you take a lot of photos at one location or in a single day the device prompts you to make an album. Specify criteria for the album such as location people and time. Add more to the album You can record details for the page or the To add a caption to the photo select a photo photo. While turning the pages tap a date on while turning the pages and then tap. the page. Tap and add a memo to the page. Tap and hold a photo to change the location in the page rotate or zoom in or out on the photo. Tap to add various effects to the photo. TIP While turning the pages tap Add content and then add other photos memos or location information. Publish an album You can publish an album with an In the story album select an album and tap Order attractive layout and keep it on photo book. Select the currency the size of the album your bookshelf. and then enter the shipping address and other details as required. Proof the album layout on the screen. To change the layout go back to the album tap Change theme. TIP To order an album you must sign in to your Samsung account. Just come close your finger Air view I was so excited about my brother s performance that I recorded a really long video. Later I wanted to find that part where he started dancing but the video was so long that I couldn t find it! Just when I was getting really frustrated my mom came over and pointed at the screen and a preview appeared like magic. Amazing! Search easily with Information preview Point at the album folder on the To use this feature tap Settings My device Air view screen to preview the photos in drag the Air view switch to the right and then drag the the folder. You can find a photo Information preview switch to the right. easily without checking each folder. TIP You can also preview speed dial contact information when you point at a number on the keypad. To use this feature activate the speed dial preview feature. Search easily with Progress preview Point at the progress bar on the To use this feature tap Settings My device Air view screen to preview segments of a drag the Air view switch to the right and then drag the video while in play mode. You can Progress preview switch to the right. find the point you want quickly and easily. Search easily with Webpage magnifier Point at the screen while viewing To use this feature tap Settings My device Air view a webpage to view the content in drag the Air view switch to the right and then drag the a larger size. This feature helps you Webpage magnifier switch to the right. view the webpage and select links. Browse without touching Air Gesture This device is truly magical. My husband showed me how I can preview photos just by waving my hand across the screen. He can flip through a photo album even when his hands are covered in pizza grease! Browse photos with Air browse Swipe your hand to the left or To use this feature tap Settings My device Motions right across the screen to flip and gestures Air gesture drag the Air gesture switch through photos music or pages. to the right and then drag the Air browse switch to the right. Answer a call with Air call accept Wave your hand across the screen To use this feature tap Settings My device Motions to answer an incoming call. and gestures Air gesture drag the Air gesture switch to the right and then drag the Air call accept switch to the right. View key information with Quick glance When the screen is turned off To use this feature tap Settings My device Motions move your hand above the screen and gestures Air gesture drag the Air gesture switch to view notifications missed calls to the right and then drag the Quick glance switch to the new messages time and date and right. more. Turn the pages with Air jump While viewing emails or To use this feature tap Settings My device Motions webpages move your hand up or and gestures Air gesture drag the Air gesture switch down across the screen to scroll to the right and then drag the Air jump switch to the pages up or down. right. Move the icon with Air move On the Home screen tap and hold To use this feature tap Settings My device Motions an icon with one hand and then and gestures Air gesture drag the Air gesture switch move the other hand to the left to the right and then drag the Air move switch to the or right across the screen to move right. the icon to another location. TIP You can move the event to another day or week with this feature. While using the daily or weekly calendar tap and hold an event and then move the other hand to the left or right. Move your head Samsung Smart Scroll Samsung Smart Pause I found my husband just staring at his phone. I thought he had fallen asleep with his eyes open but he said he was reading the newspaper. This device actually lets him scroll through pages just by nodding his head! Scroll pages with Samsung Smart Scroll With the smart scroll feature To use this feature tap Settings My device Smart you can scroll through emails or screen and then drag the Smart scroll switch to the right. webpages up or down. Nod your head up or down or tilt the device back and forth. Pause video with Samsung Smart Pause With the smart pause feature To use this feature tap Settings My device Smart playback pauses automatically screen and then tap the tick box next to Smart pause. when you look away from the screen. It resumes when you look at the screen again. Share the joy Group Play My son and daughter had some fun editing some of our photos. I used the device to join their group and see what they were laughing so hard about. What was it? Me with a giant moustache! Share photos with Group Play Create a group with the device To share photos from your device tap Group Play and let other devices share Create group to create a group. Then tap Share pictures contents via a Wi Fi connection. and select a photo to share. You can share and edit photos To join a group and view shared photos tap Group Play together. Join group Share pictures. TIP Tap to draw on the photo. Share documents with Group Play You can share documents on your To share documents from your device tap Group Play device easily. You don t need to Create group to create a group. Then tap Share send emails or connect to a larger documents and select a document to share. screen to share your documents. To join a group and view a shared document tap Group Play Join group Share documents. Share music with a surround sound system You can share live music and To share music from your device tap Group Play Create also use connected devices group to create a group. Then tap Share music and select as a surround sound system a music to share. to get more out of your music To join a group and listen to shared music tap Group Play experience. Join group Share music. TIP Tap to adjust the volume. You can adjust the each connected device s volume. Play games together Don t play alone enjoy games To play the games together tap Group Play Create and compete with your friends group to create a group. Then tap Play games and then instead. Play online games select a game to play. together with the group play To join a group and play the games together tap Group feature. Play Join group Play games. Track calories S Health It is always exciting to try different food while travelling but the calories add up so quickly! With this handy app I can track how many calories I have eaten and burnt today. Manage calories with S Health Track calories you have consumed In the S Health app enter physical statistics such as gender and expended. Enter your vital height weight and required information to complete the information and set a fitness goal profile. to help you lead a healthy lifestyle. Record the calories you intake each day. You can set a goal for caloric intake and view your progress. Record calories you burnt while walking or performing other exercises. You can set a goal for caloric expenditure. The device shows how close you are to your goal and awards you a gold medal when you achieve it. TIP Units of measure may vary depending on the region. Check your ideal environment The device measures the current In the S Health app tap Comfort level and then view temperature and humidity and the ideal temperature and humidity. recommends you to an ideal environment for your comfort. The face icon shows whether or not the current environment is comfortable. Your current and ideal temperature is on the left side. Your current and ideal humidity is on the right side. Control in the cold We gave our children some beautiful gloves as presents. Before they would have to remove their gloves to use a phone but not with this device. It recognises touch even with your gloves on! To use this feature tap Settings My device Display and then tap the tick box next to High touch sensitivity. Depending on the type of material you wear while touching the device some commands may not be recognised. Some content may differ from your device depending on the region service provider or software version and is subject to change without prior notice. Printed in Korea GH A English EU Rev 