ACCELL GROUP EN ORIGINAL OPERATING MANUAL User manual Cycle in general Supplementary user manual Pedelec S pedelec Supplementary user manual Children s bike User manual Balance bike EDITION LAUNAM GNITAREPO LANIGIROThis manual belongs to the following model type Guide Cycle Guide Pedelec Children s bike Balance bikeGuide Contents Information online Warnings Explanation of symbols Illustrations Explanation of terminology Pedelec EPAC S pedelec S EPAC Children s bikes Balance bikes Crankset Sag Lockout Glossary Units and abbreviations User manual structure Further information A note on maintenance and repair work A note on technical specifications Guide Information online This guide will provide you with an overview of all the signs and symbols used in this origi nal operating manual. For the sake of clarity the original operating manual will be referred to below as the user manual. Information online More information about the respective brands can be found at Website Brand s www.atala.it Atala www.batavus.com Batavus www.ghost bikes.com Ghost www.greens bikes.de Green s www.haibike.com Haibike www.koga.com Koga www.lapierrebikes.com Lapierre www.loekie.nl Loekie www.raleigh.co.uk Raleigh www.sparta.nl www.spartabikes.de Sparta www.vannicholas.com Van Nicholas www.whistlebikes.com Whistle www.winora.com Winora www.accell group.com Accell Group Warnings Guide Warnings The following signal symbols and signal words are used in this user manual to warn against personal injury or damage to property. Warnings are intended to draw attention to possible dangers. Failure to follow a warning may result in injury to yourself or other people as well as causing property damage. Read and follow all warnings. DANGER This warning identifies a hazard with a high degree of risk resulting in serious injury or death if not avoided. WARNING This warning identifies a hazard with a moderate degree of risk resulting in se rious injury if not avoided. CAUTION This warning identifies a hazard with a low degree of risk resulting in minor or moderate injury if not avoided. NOTE This warning calls attention to potential property damage. Explanation of symbols The following symbols may be used in this original operating manual on cycle compo nents or on packaging. Symbol Explanation This symbol provides you with useful additional information about adjustment or use. This symbol indicates that you must read the user manual. Guide Explanation of symbols Products marked with this symbol meet all applicable European Economic Com munity regulations. This symbol identifies the age rating for young children. Do not use the vehicle on public roads. This symbol indicates the maximum permissible trailer load and drawbar load of a vehicle with special trailer preparation on the vehicle frame. If the symbol is not present on the vehicle the standard values for the trailer load from the vehicle operating manual chapter Maximum permitted total weight apply. This symbol is an example indicating the maximum gross weight limit for the cycle. Refer to the sticker on your cycle to find out its maximum gross weight limit. This symbol is an example indicating the cycle category. Refer to the sticker on your cycle to find out its cycle category. You can find a comprehensive description of the cycle categories in the Cycle categories chapter of the cycle user manual. The following symbols are only applicable for the USA Symbol Explanation This example symbol identifies a class pedelec which has a power rating of Watts and travels no faster than mph. XDURO FULLSEVEN. This example symbol identifies a class S pedelec which has a power rating of Watts and travels no faster than mph. Illustrations Guide This symbol is an example indicating the maximum gross weight limit for the cycle. Refer to the sticker on your cycle to find out its maximum gross weight limit. lbs Illustrations The illustrations in this user manual are examples and may differ from the actual design of your cycle. If you lack the necessary expertise regarding your cycle model contact your dealer. Example of an illustration Illustr. Correct handlebar alignment Illustr. Illustration structure Example illustration Caption Explanation of terminology The following terms are used in this user manual. Pedelec EPAC Contrary to the official standard EPACs electric power assisted cycles are referred to in this user manual as pedelecs from pedal electric cycle. The following paragraph is only applicable for Europe Pedelecs are cycles with an electric auxiliary motor that provides assistance up to a maxi mum of km h. mph when you pedal. Depending on the cycle model there may be a pushing aid which can accelerate the cycle up to km h mph depending on what gear the shifting system is in. Guide Explanation of terminology The following paragraph is only applicable for the USA Pedelecs are cycles with an electric auxiliary motor that provides assistance up to a max imum of mph when you pedal. By law pedelecs are class see the Explanation of symbols chapter. There may be a pushing aid depending on the cycle model. How this functions is described in more detail in the drive system user manual enclosed with the cycle. Pedelecs are cycles that are legally classed as bikes in most countries. Acquaint yourself with the national and regional regulations and classification in your country S pedelec S EPAC Contrary to the official standard S EPACs speed electric power assisted cycles are re ferred to in this user manual as S pedelecs from speed pedal electric cycle. The follow ing paragraph is only applicable for Europe S pedelecs are cycles with an electric auxiliary motor that provides assistance up to a maximum of km h mph when you pedal. Depending on the model all electric op eration up to a maximum of km h mph may also be possible. The following paragraph is only applicable for the USA S pedelecs are cycles with an electric auxiliary motor that provides assistance up to a maximum of mph when you pedal. There may be a pushing aid depending on the cycle model. How this functions is described in more detail in the drive system user manual enclosed with the cycle. By law S pedelecs are class see the Explanation of symbols chapter. In some countries S pedelecs are classed as motor vehicles. Acquaint yourself with the national and regional regulations and classification in your country Children s bikes Children s bikes are pedal powered category cycles for children with and wheels. Explanation of terminology Guide. Balance bikes Balance bikes are category cycles without pedals for children aged years and up. Bal ance bikes are pushed along as the child moves Crankset A crankset sometimes known as a chainset is an assembly consisting of chainrings ped als and cranks. Chainring Pedal Crank Illustr. Crankset using the example of a derailleur shifting system with chainrings. Sag Sag is the amount of compression in suspension elements which is caused by the rider s body weight. Depending on the model of the suspension fork or suspension and depend ing on the intended use the sag is adjusted to a value between and of the total suspension travel Lockout The lockout feature locks the suspension fork. This can reduce bob or squat in the front fork e.g. where the suspension sinks when pedalling hard. Depending on the cycle model the rear suspension may also be equipped with a lockout feature see the Suspension chapter in the cycle user manual Glossary A glossary of terms used in this user manual is included after the balance bike manual. Guide Units and abbreviations Units and abbreviations The following units and abbreviations can be found in this user manual or on components of your cycle Unit Meaning Unit for Degree Angular measurement C Degrees Celsius Temperature F Degrees Fahrenheit Temperature USA s per second Revolutions Inches Unit of measurement USA inch. cm A Amperes Electrical current Ah Ampere hours Electrical charge bar Bars Pressure g Grams Mass weight h Hours Time Hz Hertz Frequency kg Kilograms Mass weight km h Kilometres per hour Speed kPa Kilopascals Pressure mph Miles per hour Speed USA Nm Newton metres Torque psi Pounds per square inch Pressure USA V Volts Electrical voltage W Watts Electrical power Wh Watt hours Electrical capacity User manual structure Guide User manual structure This original operating manual contains four user manuals. Cycle user manual Provides the basis for all cycle categories except in the case of the balance bike user manual. Contains information for the following cycle categories x Read the entire user manual carefully paying particular attention to the safety notes Pedelec and S pedelec supplementary user manual Contains special information on pedelecs and S pedelecs in addition to the vehicle user manual. Contains information for the following cycle categories x Read the entire pedelec and S pedelec supplementary user manual carefully as well Children s bike supplementary user manual Contains special information on children s bikes in addition to the vehicle user manual. Contains information for the following cycle category x Read the entire children s bike supplementary user manual carefully as well Balance bike user manual Contains all information about balance bikes. Contains information for the following cycle category x Read the entire balance bike user manual carefully. Guide Further information Further information You should receive all important documents and necessary information from your dealer along with your cycle The completed cycle passport document and handover certificate which can be found at the end of the standard print version of the original operating manual. A standard print version of the original operating manual for your cycle. Further information can be found on the Internet on the respective brand homepage see list in chapter Information online. If applicable manufacturer manual for components. If purchasing a pedelec you will also receive a quick start guide for the pedelec drive system. A complete original user manual for your pedelec drive system can be found on the Internet on the respective brand homepage see list in chapter Information online. If purchasing an S pedelec you will also receive a complete original operating manual for your S pedelec drive system. On your cycle you will find The cycle category number for your cycle The maximum gross weight limit The weight of the vehicle model rounded The nameplate with type designation x Compare the details specified on your cycle passport and the cycle category number on your cycle against the User manual structure chapter to find all the information about your cycle model. A note on maintenance and repair work Only carry out steps described in the user manual if you have the necessary expertise and the tools required. Otherwise have the work carried out by a dealer. A note on technical specifications You can obtain information on the technical data and equipment of your vehicle model in writing from your dealer or on the respective brand homepage see list in the Online in formation section. User manual CycleCycle Seat tube Crank Top tube Chainrings Down tube Chain Handlebar stem Kickstand Handlebars Chain stays Brake lever Rear derailleur Front fork suspension fork Cassette of sprockets Headlamp Reflector Front brake Rear lamp Spoke Luggage carrier Tyre Seat stays Valve Rear brake Wheel hub Saddle clamp Rim Seat post clamp Pedal Saddle Example illustrationCycle Contents Basics Reading and storing the user manual Proper use Cycle categories Maximum gross weight limit Seating position Frame height Helmet Luggage carrier Luggage carrier with clamp Luggage carrier with bungee cord and no clamp Low rider luggage carrier for panniers Luggage system carrier Kickstand variants Side kickstand and rear kickstand Bipod kickstand Bicycle trainers Aero handlebars on racing bikes Before setting off Before every ride Before the first ride Safety General safety notes Notes on road use Notes on carrying children Child seat Child trailer Notes on transportation Notes on luggage Notes on fitting trailers Notes on cargo and dog trailers Notes on transporting the cycle by car Notes on torques Notes on screw turning directions Cycle. Notes on wear Notes on carbon components Falls and accidents Bike carriers Torques Residual risks Basic adjustments Quick releases Saddle Adjusting the saddle height Minimum insertion depth Adjusting the minimum pull out height Adjusting the saddle tilt Adjusting the reach Handlebars and handlebar stems Minimum insertion depth Adjusting the handlebar stem tilt Aligning the handlebars Controls Brake lever Check the arrangement of the brake lever Adjusting the position Adjusting the grip width Pedals Folding pedal Block pedal Clipless pedal Foot clearance Lighting Hub dynamo Battery powered and rechargeable lighting Headlamp Rear lamp Reflectors Suspension Brake Basics Cycle Coaster brake Brake lever Disc brake Rim brake Operation Operating the brake lever Operating the coaster brake Bedding in disc brakes Maintaining braking force ABS system Adjustments Adjusting the brake cable tension in mechanical brakes Adjusting the pressure point Derailleur shifting system Basics Mechanical derailleur shifting system Electronic derailleur shifting system Gear combinations Operation Shifting sprockets Shifting chainrings Electronic derailleur shifting system Derailleur hub shifting system Dual Drive Operating the shift levers on a racing bike Adjustments Adjusting the rear derailleur Adjusting the front derailleur Readjusting the shift cable tension Adjusting the derailleur shifting system on a racing bike Hub shifting systems Basics Automatic shifting system Automatix Stepless gear shifting system NuVinci Stepless automatic gear shifting system NuVinci Harmony Electronic hub shifting system Operation Hub shifting systems with gear levels Cycle Stepless hub shifting systems Derailleur hub shifting system Dual Drive Adjustments Adjusting the shift cable tension Adjusting the shift cable tension in a NuVinci shifting system Pinion gearbox Before every ride Shifting gears with a Pinion gearbox Troubleshooting Cleaning a Pinion gearbox Maintaining a Pinion gearbox Maintaining a Pinion gearbox with a chain drive Maintaining a Pinion gearbox with a belt drive Oil change Belt drive Belt drive structure Using the belt drive Checking the belt tension Belt drive wear Visually inspecting the belt for wear Visually inspecting the belt drive for wear Visually inspecting the chainring for wear Cleaning the belt drive Wheels and tyres Tyres and valves Valve types Tyre pressure Rims and spokes Fitting and removing the front rear wheel Front rear wheels with quick release axles Fitting Removal Front rear wheels with thru axles Fitting Removal Front rear wheels with screw joints Fitting Cycle Removal Carbon wheels Telescopic seat post Basics Operation Adjustments Adjusting the cable tension Adjusting the extension speed Telescopic seat post remote control position Adjusting a pneumatic telescopic seat post Bleeding a hydraulic telescopic seat post Suspension Suspension seat post Suspension fork and rear suspension Basics Operation Adjustments Compression and rebound Sag Lockout Cleaning Brakes Suspension Gear shifting system Chain Maintenance Inspection intervals Screw joints Frame and rigid fork Suspension fork Luggage carrier and mudguards Saddle Handlebars and handlebar stems Adjusting the headset Conventional handlebar stem with an internal clamping mechanism Handlebar stem with an external clamping mechanism Cycle. Wheels Rims and spokes Rim wear indicator with rim brakes Tyres Flat tyre Removing the wheel Preparing the brakes Preparing mechanical rim brakes Preparing hydraulic rim brakes Preparing the coaster brake Preparing the brakes on racing bikes Removing the front wheel Removing the rear wheel Removing clincher or folding tyres Checking the rim tape Fitting clincher or folding tyres Fitting UST tyres Fitting the wheel Fitting the front wheel Fitting the rear wheel After fitting the wheels Brake system Rim brakes in general Checking a brake pad Changing a brake pad Changing a screw type brake pad Changing a brake pad with a fixing pin Changing the brake block holders on a racing bike Adjusting brake pad distance on a racing bike Mechanical rim brake Changing a brake block holder Adjusting the brake block holder distance Checking the brake system Hydraulic rim brake Changing the brake block holders Adjusting brake block holder distances Magura HS models Checking the brake system Disc brake Cycle Bedding in a disc brake Checking the brake disc Adjusting the pressure point Adjusting the brake calliper Changing brake pads Checking a brake pad Checking the brake system Coaster brake Crankset Lighting set Hub dynamo Chain tension Adjusting the chain tension with hub gears Chain tension in derailleur shifting systems Shift cables Derailleur shifting system Tyre pressure recommendations Greasing and oiling Cleaning and maintenance schedule Storage Disposal Cycle Electronic components and accessories Packaging Tyres and inner tubes Lubricants and care products CycleCycle Basics Basics. Reading and storing the user manual This user manual is part of your cycle. The cycle user manual refers to bikes racing bikes pedelecs S pedelecs children s bikes and balance bikes collectively as cy cles. The user manual contains important information about adjustment and use. Read the entire user manual carefully paying particular attention to the safety notes before using the cycle. Also carefully and thoroughly read the supplemen tary user manuals depending on the cycle model and cycle category. Failure to follow this user manual may result in serious injury or damage to the cycle. Keep the user manual to hand. If passing the cycle on to a third party it is essential that you include this user manual along with it Proper use Neither the manufacturer nor the dealer accept any liability for damage caused due to im proper use. Use the cycle only as described in this user manual. Any other use is deemed improper and may result in accidents serious injury or damage to the cycle. Converting a cycle into a pedelec or S pedelec through retrofitting is not permitted. Manipulating the drive unit on pedelecs and S pedelecs is prohibited. Changes or conversions to the vehicle that change the characteristics of the vehicle e.g. ski runners load transport attachments sidecars are not permitted. Warranty claims may be endangered and may expire if the vehicle is not used as intended. The cycle is designed for use by one person with the seating position adjusted to suit their height see the Basics Seating position chapter. The use of child seats child trailers and other bicycle trailers load and dog trailers is not permitted for vehicles in vehicle categories and. If a child seat or a trailer is used with a vehicle of category or the driver must comply with the intended use of catego ry. The specified instructions for use remain valid for category. The use of child seats child trailers and other bicycle trailers is not permitted for Vehicles with a carbon rear triangle unless it has a special mount for securing the trailer hitch S pedelec cycles Children s and junior bikes with size or wheels. For further information please read the chapter Safety Notes on bringing along chil dren and pay attention to special instructions for use on your vehicle. Contact your dealer before using child trailers or child seats. Racing bikes and fitness bikes are designed solely for use on roads and paths with a smooth asphalt concrete or paved surface. Any use on Basics Cycle unsurfaced paths may cause the cycle to break down. The installation of a luggage rack child seat or trailer is not permitted. A racing bike fitness bike is defined as a cycle with drop handlebars racing bike or flat handlebars flat bar on a fitness bike with narrow tyres with very little or no tread with a rigid frame which requires a stretched out seating position as in cycle sports Proper use of the cycle on the road requires you to know understand and observe nation al and regional regulations see the Safety Notes on road use chapter Cycle categories The cycle is marked with a cycle category symbol. This symbol is generally located on the left hand side of the seat tube x Check the category indicated on your cycle against the cycle categories in the table below. x Read all the chapters that are relevant to your cycle category. Symbol Cycle category Use Category cycles are Category generally balance For children aged years and up bikes and or chil Only for use under the supervision of a parent or dren s bikes. guardian Not permitted on the road Not permitted in competitions Not suitable for jumps or acrobatics Category vehicles are Category vehicles designed for only for asphalt concrete or paved roads and purely urban infrastruc paths ture road conditions. permanent contact of the wheels with the ground must be guaranteed participation in competitions is not permitted not suitable for drops jumps and acrobatics the intended range of average speed is to km h to. mph Cycle Basics Symbol Cycle category Use Category vehicles are Category usually bicycles pedelecs only for asphalt concrete or paved roads and and S pedelecs of the paths racing bike or fitness bike permanent contact of the wheels with the ground urban bike time trial must be guaranteed triathlon bike type. participation in competitions is permitted suitable for downhill and sprints not suitable for drops jumps and acrobatics the intended range of average speed is to km h. to mph Category vehicles are Category usually bicycles pedelecs Includes category plus surfaced and naturally and S pedelecs of the firm paths with moderate inclines city trekking cross trek Can be ridden down steps of up to cm. e.g. king touring or cargo bike kerbs curbs type as well as youth bikes and children s Not permitted in competitions bikes. suitable for recreational riding and trekking under moderate strain Not suitable for jumps or acrobatics the intended range of average speed is to km h to. mph Category cycles are Category generally bikes pedelecs Includes categories and plus rough trails with and S pedelecs in the small obstacles and unsurfaced routes that re style of mountain bikes quire good riding technique designed for cross coun suitable for sport and competition riding with try marathon and tour moderate technical demands of the trails ing use plus bikes in the gravel cyclo cross and Drops and jumps permitted up to a max. height of all track segments. cm. with appropriate riding technique Not suitable for acrobatics Basics Cycle Symbol Cycle category Use Category vehicles are Category usually bicycles pedelecs Includes categories and and S pedelecs of the Larger obstacles and higher speeds require in mountain bike type with creased riding skill the all mountain trail bike purpose. Permitted in competitions suitable for descents on unpaved roads Drops and jumps permitted up to a max. height of cm. with appropriate riding technique Not suitable for acrobatics Category cycles are Category generally bikes pedelecs Includes categories and plus very fast and S pedelecs in the and very demanding terrain with extreme down style of mountain bikes ward slopes designed for enduro fre Very high demands on riding skill eride downhill dirtjump use. Permitted in competitions suitable for jumps and descents on unpaved paths Long drops and jumps permitted with appropriate riding technique Not suitable for acrobatics Balance bikes with wheels correspond to DIN EN Balance bikes with and wheels correspond to DIN EN ISO Pedelecs comply with DIN EN and partly also with DIN EN ISO. S pedelecs comply with DIN EN or the regulation EU L e B. All other bicycles comply with DIN EN ISO. The intended use is based on DIN EN Cycle Basics. Maximum gross weight limit DANGER Component breakage due to overloading the cycle. Risk of accident and injury! x Observe the maximum gross weight limit for the cycle. NOTE Material damage due to overloading the cycle. Risk of damage! x Observe the maximum gross weight limit for the cycle. The cycle has a maximum gross weight limit that may not be exceeded. x Observe the maximum gross weight limit for the cycle. x Contact your dealer if you have any questions about the maximum gross weight limit. This symbol is only applicable for Europe This symbol example indicates the maximum gross weight limit for the cycle. Refer to the sticker on your cycle to find out its maximum gross weight limit. The sticker is generally located on the lower left hand side of the seat tube. This symbol is only applicable for the USA This symbol example indicates the maximum gross weight limit for the cycle. Refer to the sticker on your cycle to find out its maximum gross weight limit. The sticker is generally located on the lower left hand side of lbs the seat tube. The maximum gross weight limit is calculated as follows Cycle rider luggage back pack child seat etc. maximum gross weight limit. Maximum gross weight limit and operating trailers If a trailer is used the maximum towable load of kg unbraked kg braked trailer payload must not be exceeded. Basics Cycle This symbol indicates the vehicle s maximum permissible trailer load. Note any additional information on the bike or trailer. If these specifications are less than a maximum of kg these specifications must be observed. Observe the trailer manufacturer s specifications for the drawbar load. If a trailer is used the total weight of the trailer trailer payload is included in the to tal weight of the vehicle and must be taken into account with regard to the maximum permissible total weight of the vehicle. If necessary the vehicle is approved for a higher permissible total weight as a team with a trailer. Pay attention to the instructions on the vehicle and in the model specific documents Seating position CAUTION Muscle tension and joint pain due to an incorrectly adjusted seating position. Risk of injury! x Have the seating position correctly adjusted by your dealer. CAUTION Limited ability to reach controls due to an incorrectly adjusted seat ing position. Risk of accident and injury! x Have the seating position correctly adjusted by your dealer. The optimum seating position depends on the size and shape of the cycle frame the size of the rider and how the handlebars and saddle are adjusted. Optimum seating position adjustments require expertise. The optimum seating position can also depend on how the cycle is used e.g. primarily for sports. The main characteristics of an optimum seating position are When one pedal is up the arms and the top knee are all at a angle. The lower leg is slightly bent see Illustr. Optimum seating position A. Cycle Basics When one pedal is forward the knee is over the axle of the front pedal see Illustr. Optimum seating position B. The arms are relaxed and bent slightly outwards not visible in the picture. The back is leant slightly forwards not vertical to the seat post. A B Illustr. Optimum seating position example x Read the Basic adjustments Saddle and Basic adjustments Handlebars and han dlebar stems chapters on adjusting the saddle or handlebars to the correct height Frame height For a safe and comfortable ride it is important to buy a cycle with the right height and length of frame for the rider. The right frame height depends on the rider s inside leg in seam measurement. It is important to take the inside leg measurement into account so that it is possible to quickly and safely stop the cycle and dismount in dangerous situa tions. x Consult a dealer about the right frame height. Basics Cycle. Helmet x Wear a suitable and correctly fitting helmet every time you ride your cycle. x Consult your dealer when buying a helmet. x Have your dealer adjust your helmet to fit you. x Refer to and follow the information enclosed by the helmet manufacturer. x Ensure that the helmet is correctly positioned see Illustr. Helmet position A. x Always fasten the clasp under your chin. A B Illustr. Helmet position A correct B sitting too far back example. Luggage carrier CAUTION Blockage of the front wheel results from incorrect loading of the front luggage carrier. Risk of accident and injury! x Only load the front luggage carrier upwards. x Position your load so that it does not hang down at the sides and does not hinder steering. x Position your load so that it cannot get caught in the spokes of the front wheel. Cycle Basics CAUTION Altered handling characteristics due to transport gear that was fit ted at a later date. Risk of injury! x Adapt your riding style to suit the altered handling characteris tics. NOTE Overloading the luggage carrier. Risk of damage! x Observe the maximum load limit for the luggage carrier. x The luggage carrier is only approved for transporting luggage. NOTE Damage to cycle components due to fitting a luggage carrier where this is not permitted. Risk of damage! x Never fit a luggage carrier to the seat post. x Never fit a luggage carrier on a full suspension frame. A luggage carrier is a device on the cycle which can be used to transport luggage. Depending on the cycle model it may be a luggage carrier with a clamp a luggage carrier with bungee cords and no clamp or a low rider luggage carrier for panniers. Many models also come equipped as standard with luggage system carriers. There are a variety of accessories available for these luggage system carriers such as baskets or bags that lock in place on the luggage area. x Consult your dealer about suitable accessories. Basics Cycle If your cycle is equipped with a luggage carrier x Do not make any alterations to the luggage carrier. x Consult your dealer if you would like to replace the luggage carrier. x Do not overload the luggage carrier. x Observe the maximum load limit for the luggage carrier. x The maximum load limit is generally stamped on the surface of the luggage carri er. x If the maximum load limit is not stamped on the surface of the luggage carrier consult your dealer. x Load the luggage carrier evenly. x If you use panniers ensure that the weight of the luggage is distributed equally between the left and right hand sides. x Make sure that the luggage is adequately secured to prevent it falling off. x Use bungee cords to secure luggage if necessary. If your cycle is not equipped with a luggage carrier x A luggage carrier is only permitted to be fitted to the rear suspension of the cycle at a later date if the required fastening points are already present on the frame. Should this not be the case it is forbidden to fit the carrier at a later date. Also observe any indications on the cycle if present. x The retrofitting of a luggage carrier or other transport gear to the front wheel fork is forbidden unless this has been explicitly approved. x The retrofitting of a luggage carrier or other transport gear to the front wheel fork and or rear suspension of S pedelecs is forbidden. Make sure that illumination systems and reflectors are not covered when transport gear is fitted at a later date or if necessary their position is changed Luggage carrier with clamp. Grasp the clamp carefully pull it upwards and hold it in this position Place your luggage on the luggage carrier Fasten your luggage on the luggage carri er by slowly lowering the clamp Make sure that the luggage is secured to prevent it falling off. Illustr. Luggage carrier with a clamp example Cycle Basics Luggage carrier with bungee cord and no clamp. Release the bungee cords Place your luggage on the luggage carrier Pull the bungee cords firmly over the luggage Fasten the bungee cords to the attach ments provided on the frame of the luggage carrier. x Make sure that the luggage is se Illustr. Luggage carrier with bungee cords cured to prevent it falling off. example Low rider luggage carrier for panniers. Fill the panniers Ensure that the panniers are of equal weight Close the panniers so that there are no dangling straps or buckles Mount the panniers on the luggage carri er using the hanger. x Make sure that the bags are firmly in place on the low rider luggage carrier and secured to prevent them falling off. Illustr. Low rider luggage carrier example Luggage system carrier x Refer to and follow the information enclosed about the features of your luggage system carrier. x If necessary consult your dealer about features and suitable accessories. Basics Cycle. Kickstand variants A kickstand is a device for parking the cycle in an upright position after use. Kickstand equipped models have a central side kickstand a central bipod kickstand or a rear kickstand see Illustr. Kickstand vari ants. If your cycle is not equipped with a kickstand and you would like to have one retrofitted x Consult your dealer about retrofitting a kickstand. x Have the kickstand fitted by your dealer. Illustr. Kickstand variants example x Note that retrofitted kickstands are not Central bipod kickstand permitted on carbon frames. Central side kickstand Rear kickstand Side kickstand and rear kickstand. To flip down the central side kickstand or rear kickstand hold the cycle firmly Push the side or rear kickstand downwards with your foot Set the cycle on the side or rear kickstand Before letting go of the cycle make sure that it is stable on the side or rear kickstand and cannot fall over. x To flip the side or rear kickstand up again take the weight off it and push it upwards with your foot Bipod kickstand. To flip down the central bipod kickstand hold the cycle firmly Push the bipod kickstand downwards with your foot Fix the bipod kickstand in place with your foot Push the cycle backwards so that it sits on the bipod kickstand Before letting go of the cycle make sure that it is stable on the bipod kickstand and cannot fall over. x To flip the bipod kickstand up push the cycle forwards. This movement will push the bipod kickstand upwards. x Before riding off check that the kickstand is fully up and not dragging on the ground. Cycle Basics. Bicycle trainers WARNING Incorrect operation of the bicycle trainer due to insufficient knowl edge. Risk of accident and injury! x Familiarise yourself with the features of the bicycle trainer be fore operation and use. When using bicycle trainers only what are known as bicycle rollers are permitted. These rollers do not attach to the cycle. If applicable the tyres of the cycle must be adjust to the bicycle trainer. Motorised cycles of any kind as well as Category cycles and children s and youth bicycles are excluded from use with bicycle trainers Aero handlebars on racing bikes WARNING Longer braking distance due to greater distance from the brake le vers. Risk of accident! x Familiarise yourself with the aero handlebars and the change of grip required to reach the brake levers. x Take particular care to look ahead and anticipate while riding if you use aero handlebars. Aero handlebars are used to allow aerodynamic positioning on a racing bike for example in triathlons and time trials. Only category cycles and racing bikes without motor assistance may be retrofitted with aero handlebars. Before setting off Cycle The shift levers on aero handlebars are often at the ends of the bars see the Derailleur shifting system Operation Operating the shift levers on a racing bike chapter. The brake levers are at the ends of the standard handlebars. When the racing bike is ridden in an aerodynamic position the brake levers are out of the rider s immediate reach. x Keep off the road while you familiarise yourself with the handling of aero han Illustr. Distance between the shift levers and dlebars and the change of grip required to brake levers on aero handlebars example reach the brake levers. Shift lever x When practising with the handlebars Brake lever eliminate other potential hazards such as inexperienced use of clipless pedals. Limit yourself to practising with the handlebars at first. x Adapt your riding style to suit the altered handling characteristics. Before setting off This chapter contains information about how to put the cycle into use Before every ride WARNING Material breakage due to usage related wear and loose screw joints. Risk of accident and injury! x Check the cycle according to the inspection instructions before every ride. x Only use the cycle if it is undamaged. x Only use the cycle if you find no signs of excessive wear and no loose screw or clip type joints. Cycle Before setting off x Check the cycle according to the inspection instructions before every ride. Inspection instructions Screw and clip type joints Visually inspect screw and clip type joints Brakes Test brake functionality Gear shifting system Test gear shifting system functionality Wheels Visually inspect for correct positioning and alignment Visually inspect thru axles quick releases and or screw joints Tyres Visually inspect tyres for cracks or foreign bodies Check and adjust tyre pressure Frame Visually inspect frame for cracks deformation or discol ouration Suspension Test functionality by compressing and extending Rims and spokes Visually inspect rims and spokes Quick releases Check preload Visually inspect quick releases for correct positioning Saddle seat post Visually inspect saddle seat post Handlebars handlebar stem Check handlebars and handlebar stem are firmly in place Visually inspect handlebars and handlebar stem for cracks deformation or discolouration Lighting Test lighting functionality Bell Test bell functionality Before setting off Cycle. With brakes that have quick release levers check both brakes to see whether these levers are open see Illustr. Quick release lever position Test the functionality of the brakes. x Operate the brake levers and coaster brake if applicable and listen for unusual noises. x Check that the cycle is difficult or Illustr. Quick release lever position example impossible to push with the brake Quick release lever applied. x Check whether there is any brake pad grinding when the brake levers are re leased. x When operating the brake levers check whether they touch the handlebars. If necessary have your dealer readjust the brakes or replace worn components Test the functionality of the gear shifting system. x Check that all the gears shift correctly and whether any unusual noises are pro duced in the process Compress and extend the suspension fork. x If you hear unusual noises or the suspension fork gives way without any resist ance have it checked by your dealer Check whether the quick release axles or thru axles if applicable are correctly fas tened and adjusted see the Wheels and tyres Fitting and removing the front rear wheel chapter Check whether the handlebars are aligned perpendicularly to the front wheel. x Adjust the handlebars if they are not perpendicular to the front wheel see the Basic adjustments Handlebars and handlebar stems Aligning the handlebars chapter Test the functionality of the bell and lighting. x Check whether you hear a clear sound when you operate the bell. x Switch on the lighting and check whether the headlamp and rear lamp are lit see the Basic adjustments Lighting chapter. With dynamo equipped cycles turn the front wheel to do this. x Remove any impurities dirt from the headlamp reflectors and tail light. Cycle Before setting off. Before the first ride WARNING Unexpected cycle behaviour due to incorrect operation. Risk of accident and injury! x Familiarise yourself with the cycle before riding it for the first time. The cycle has been fully assembled and adjusted by your dealer and is ready to ride. The following points must also be noted before your first ride x Familiarise yourself with the arrangement of the brake levers. x If the brake levers for the front and rear brakes are arranged in a way that is unusual to you have this changed by your dealer. x Stay at low speeds while you get accustomed to the braking characteristics of your brake type see the Brake chapter. x With hydraulic brakes operate both brake levers several times to centre the brake pads in the brake calliper. x Make sure that the handlebars seat post and grips are firmly attached. x Keep off the road while you get accustomed to the handling characteristics of your cycle. x Keep off the road while you practice using the gear shifting system until you can operate it without any loss of attention see the Derailleur shifting system and Hub shifting systems chapters. x Check that you can sit in a position which is comfortable on longer rides and allows you to reach all the components on the handlebars safely while riding see the Ba sics Seating position chapter. Safety Cycle Safety. General safety notes DANGER Lack of protective headgear. Risk of injury! x Wear a suitable helmet when riding. WARNING Incorrect operation of the cycle due to insufficient knowledge. Risk of accident and injury! x Familiarise yourself with the features of the cycle before opera tion and use. x If you are unfamiliar with the arrangement of the brake levers for the front and rear brakes familiarise yourself with it and ad just your riding accordingly at the beginning. WARNING Incorrect operation by children or people with insufficient knowl edge or capabilities. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not allow the cycle to be used by people with reduced phys ical sensory or mental capabilities or with a lack of experience and expertise. x Do not allow children to play with the cycle. Do not allow clean ing or maintenance to be carried out by children or people with reduced physical sensory or mental capabilities. x Do not allow children to play with the packaging or small parts. Cycle Safety The following safety note is only applicable to these cycle categories WARNING Component breakage due to improper use of the cycle. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not jump over ramps or mounds of earth with the cycle. x Do not ride the cycle cross country. x Do not drive the vehicle over stairs rocks or other steps with a height of more than cm e.g. high kerbs. The following safety note is only applicable to these cycle categories WARNING Component breakage due to improper use of the cycle. Risk of accident and injury! x Only use the cycle to tackle obstacles that your skill and experi ence allow. Safety Cycle WARNING Improper additions or alterations to the cycle and incorrect acces sories can cause the cycle to malfunction. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not make any changes or modifications to your vehicle or have your dealer make any changes to the vehicle that change the characteristics of the vehicle e.g. ski runners load carrying attachments sidecars. x Have child seats or child trailers fitted by your dealer only. x Only have child seats or any type of trailer fitted after consulting your dealer and if permitted by the cycle category or specifica tions for your model. WARNING Longer braking distance and reduced traction due to slippery or dirty roads. Risk of accident and injury! x Adapt your riding style and speed to suit the weather and road conditions. CAUTION Lack of control over the cycle due to riding freehand. Risk of accident and injury! x Never ride the cycle freehand. Cycle Safety CAUTION Pinching hazards on the cycle. Risk of accident and injury! x Ensure that items of clothing cannot become entangled. Wear suitable clothing. CAUTION Slipping due to improper footwear. Risk of accident and injury! x Wear non slip shoes with hard soles. CAUTION Inadequate protective clothing. Risk of injury! x Wear appropriate protective clothing e.g. protectors and gloves depending on your cycle category and its intended use. CAUTION The braking effect will diminish due to soap residues oil grease or care products on the rims or brake pads or on the brake discs or brake linings. Risk of accident and injury! x Avoid the contact of grease and oil with the rim or the brake disc as well as the brake pads or the brake linings. x Do not use the vehicle if grease or oil has gotten onto the rim brake disc brake pads or brake linings and have the compo nents that are soiled with oil professionally cleaned and if nec Safety Cycle essary replaced by your dealer. x After cleaning remove soap and care product residues. x After cleaning check the brakes for soap and care product resi dues. NOTE Neon colours can lose their colouring power under prolonged expo sure to solar radiation. Risk of damage! x Do not expose your vehicle to direct sunlight for unnecessarily long periods of time and if possible place your vehicle in a loca tion protected from the sun. NOTE Increased wear due to operating the cycle incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Use your cycle as described in the section on proper use. x Refer to the notes on use that are relevant to your cycle catego ry. x Do not overload your cycle. Only tackle terrain or roads that are appropriate for your cycle category. Cycle Safety. Notes on road use DANGER Poor visibility to other road users. Risk of accident and injury! x Wear light coloured clothing with reflective elements when rid ing. WARNING Incorrect or improper use. Risk of accident and injury! x Refer to and follow national and regional road regulations. x Only use the cycle on the road if its equipment meets national and regional road regulations. x Note what is proper use for your cycle category. WARNING Inattention on the road. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not get distracted by other activities while riding e.g. switch ing on lights. x Do not use mobile devices such as smartphones or MP players while riding. x Do not use drink bottles while riding. x Do not ride the cycle if you have consumed alcohol intoxicants or medication that could affect your riding. Safety Cycle x Acquaint yourself with national and regional equipment regulations before your first ride. For example Compulsory helmet use Compulsory use of reflective safety vests Brakes Lighting and reflectors Bell Trailers child trailers and child seats x Only use child trailers if your cycle is suitable for child trailer use see the Safety Notes on carrying children Child trailer chapter. x Only use child seats if your cycle is suitable for child seat use see the Safety Notes on carrying children Child seat chapter. x Refer to and follow national and regional road regulations. x Refer to and follow the traffic code. x Contact your dealer if you have any questions. Laws and regulations can change at any time. Regularly acquaint yourself with national and regional regulations Notes on carrying children DANGER Component breakage due to overloading the cycle. Risk of accident and injury! x Observe the maximum gross weight limit for the cycle. x Do not mount any other seating except approved child seats or child trailers. x Have a child seat or child trailer fitted by your dealer. Cycle Safety WARNING Lack of protective headgear. Risk of injury! x Always have your child wear a suitable fitted helmet. x Have your dealer explain what helmets are suitable for your child. x Have your dealer show you how to use your child s helmet. CAUTION Risk of burning due to hot brake discs. Risk of injury! x Do not allow your child to play near the cycle. CAUTION Injury to your child due to the cycle falling over. Risk of injury! x When parking always hold the cycle firmly while your child is sitting in the child seat or while they are near the cycle. x Do not allow your child to play unsupervised near the parked cycle. x Never leave your child sitting in the child seat or child trailer when you park the cycle on the kickstand. Safety Cycle NOTE Material damage due to overloading the cycle. Risk of damage! x Observe the maximum gross weight limit for the cycle. The use of child seats child trailers and other bicycle trailers load and dog trailers is not permitted for vehicles in vehicle categories and. If a child seat or a trailer is used with a vehicle of category or the driver must comply with the intended use of category. The specified instructions for use remain valid for category. The use of child seats child trailers and other bicycle trailers is not permitted for Vehicles with a carbon rear triangle unless it has a special mount for securing the trailer hitch Vehicles of the type S Pedelec Bicycles for children and young people with the wheel sizes and. The following points must be noted before carrying children x Only carry a child in the child seat or child trailer if permitted to do so by national and regional regulations. x Refer to and follow national and regional regulations on the use of child seats and child trailers. x Ask a dealer about suitable child seats and child trailers. x Have child seats and child trailers fitted by your dealer only. x Refer to and follow the information enclosed by the child seat or child trailer manu facturer. x Observe the maximum weight limit for the child seat or child trailer as stated in the accompanying user manual. x Keep off the road while you get accustomed to the altered handling and braking be haviour of your cycle with a child seat or child trailer. x Adapt your riding style to suit the altered handling characteristics. x Practice with your child how to behave while riding. x Only carry a child in the child seat or child trailer if they are wearing a fitted helmet. Consult a dealer about choosing a suitable helmet. Cycle Safety Child seat CAUTION Injury to your child due to inadequate safeguards. Risk of injury! x When fitting a child seat have the saddle springs completely covered to avoid injury. x When fitting a child seat have all revolving and moving parts covered e.g. with a spoke protector. NOTE Damage to cycle components due to fitting a child seat where this is not permitted. Risk of damage! x Never fit a child seat to the handlebars. x Never fit a child seat to the seat post. x Never fit a child seat to a front luggage carrier. x Never fit a child seat to a carbon frame. A child seat is a system for carrying small chil dren on the cycle see Illustr. Child seat. Illustr. Child seat example Safety Cycle The following points must be noted when using a child seat x Only have child seats fitted if your cycle is suitable for this see the Basics Proper use chapter. Consult your dealer about suitable child seats. x Only use child seats which are installed so that the child sits behind the rider. From a design perspective not all cycles are able to have child seats fitted. The user and fitting instructions provided by the child seat manufacturer must be followed. With full suspension frames the suspension system tun ing must be checked. Consult your dealer. Child seats may also be fitted to the luggage carrier if a suitable system adapter for the luggage carrier is used that has been purchased from a dealer. Child seats may not be fitted to a front luggage carrier Child trailer A child trailer is a system for carrying small children. Child trailers are hitched behind the cycle see Illustr. Child trailer. Illustr. Child trailer example The following points must be noted when using a child trailer x Only have child trailers fitted if your cycle is suitable for this see the Basics Proper use chapter. Consult your dealer about suitable child trailers. x Observe the maximum trailer load limit. x If nothing to the contrary is indicated on the cycle The maximum trailer load limit for an unbraked child trailer is kg lbs. The maximum trailer load limit for a braked child trailer is kg lbs. Preference must be given to any information on the cycle that is not consistent with these limits. x Note that a child trailer makes your cycle significantly longer. x Only carry the approved number of children for your child trailer. x Only use child trailers with functional lighting that meets national and regional regula tions. x Choose a child trailer with a restraint feature. Cycle Safety x Have the child trailer fitted with a flexible flagpole at least. m. ft high and a fluorescent pennant as well as covers for the spokes and wheel wells. From a design perspective not all cycles are able to have trailer couplings fitted. Consult your dealer Notes on transportation Notes on luggage WARNING Falling due to incorrectly transported luggage. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not transport any shopping bags or other objects on the handlebars with the exception of any system approved by the manufacturer of the cycle. x Secure items on the luggage carrier to prevent them slipping and falling off. Only use undamaged bungee cords to secure lug gage. x Use sturdy panniers or suitable accessories for your luggage system carrier. WARNING Altered handling characteristics due to additional weight. Risk of accident and injury! x Keep off the road while you familiarise yourself with the han dling characteristics when carrying additional luggage. x Check the weight distribution of your luggage. x Distribute additional weight centrally on the luggage carrier or equally on both sides. Safety Cycle x If you realise that you have no guarantee of being able to ride safely reduce your luggage. x Adapt your riding style to suit the altered handling characteris tics. The following points must be noted when transporting luggage x Position your luggage so as not to obscure reflectors or lamps. x Brake earlier and plan for a longer braking distance as well as more sluggish steering behaviour. x Secure luggage on the luggage carrier e.g. with bungee cords to prevent it slipping and falling off. x Stow heavy items so that the bulk of the weight is close to the wheel hubs e.g. in the bottom of panniers. x Ensure that fasteners such as cords or rope cannot become entangled in moving parts Notes on fitting trailers WARNING Component breakage due to fitting the trailer coupling incorrectly. Risk of accident and injury! x Have trailer couplings fitted by your dealer. x Only have trailers fitted which are fastened to the rear axle of the cycle via a trailer coupling. This does not apply to models that have a mount integrated into the frame for mounting a trailer coupling. x Do not under any circumstances have the trailer coupling fastened to other parts of the frame or components such as the seat post. Cycle Safety Notes on cargo and dog trailers NOTE Incorrect use of cargo and dog trailers. Risk of damage! x Never exceed the maximum trailer load limit. x Secure loads and items in the trailer to prevent them slipping and falling off. x Only carry dogs in suitable dog trailers. Do not use a cargo or child trailer. Cargo and dog trailers are systems for transporting luggage and other items and for car rying dogs. Cargo and dog trailers are hitched behind the cycle. The following points must be noted when using cargo and dog trailers x Only have trailers fitted if your cycle is suitable for this see the Basics Proper use chapter. Consult your dealer about suitable trailers. x Observe the maximum trailer load limit x If nothing to the contrary is indicated on the cycle The maximum trailer load limit for an unbraked trailer is kg lbs. The maximum trailer load limit for a braked trailer is kg lbs. Preference must be given to any information on the cycle that is not consistent with these limits. x Note that a trailer makes your cycle significantly longer. x Only use trailers with functional lighting that meets national and regional regulations. From a design perspective not all cycles are able to have trailer couplings fitted. Consult your dealer. Safety Cycle Notes on transporting the cycle by car DANGER Endangerment of other road users due to incorrectly fastened cy cles. Risk of accident and injury! x If you transport your cycle using a fastening system for the roof or rear of the car check the cycle fastening regularly during driv ing breaks to prevent it coming loose. CAUTION Unsecured transportation of cycles and small parts. Risk of accident and injury! x Never transport an unsecured cycle or unsecured cycle parts inside your car or in the boot trunk. x Fix the cycle in place with suitable interior fastening systems if you transport the cycle in the boot or inside your car. Cycle Safety NOTE Incorrect use of bike carriers. Risk of damage! x Only use approved bike carriers that allow the cycle to be trans ported upright. x Consult a dealer about a suitable carrier system. x Cycles with hydraulic disc or rim brakes must never be trans ported upside down on their saddles. This may cause the hy draulic disc or rim brakes to fail. x Secure the cycle so that it cannot slip or fall off. Dealers offer a variety of carrier systems for transporting the cycle by car. x Consult your dealer about suitable carrier and fastening systems. x Refer to and follow national and regional road regulations. x Refer to the information enclosed by the manufacturer about fitting and use. x In the case of carbon component cycles note that these components can be dam aged by clamping forces. Only use dedicated fastening systems. x Please note that for cycles with carbon frames if the seat post is removed the grip per clamp on the seat tube opening may not be closed. x If the seat post is removed secure the gripper clamp on the seat tube opening to prevent it from being lost. x Note the change in the height of your car when using a roof carrier system. Measure the exact height before driving off. x Fit the transport locks on disc brakes when you transport the cycle without wheels. x When transporting pedelecs or S pedelecs follow the instructions in the original operating manual for the drive system. Safety Cycle. Notes on torques WARNING Material fatigue due to tightening screw joints incorrectly. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not use the cycle if you find loose screw joints. x Screw joints must be properly tightened with a torque wrench. x Screw joints must be tightened using the correct torques. x If two different torques are indicated for two connected com ponents which affect the same point of connection always ob serve the lower of the two values. To correctly tighten the screw joints the applicable torques must be observed. This re quires a torque wrench with an appropriate adjustment range. x If you have no experience with using torque wrenches or do not own a suitable torque wrench have the screw joints checked by your dealer. The correct torque for a screw joint is dependent on the material and diameter of the screw as well as the material and design of the component. x If you tighten screw joints yourself check whether your cycle is equipped with alumin ium or carbon components see the specifications data sheet provided by the dealer. x Observe the specific torques for aluminium or carbon components. x Individual components on the cycle are labelled with torque specifications or insertion depth markings. It is essential that you follow these specifications and markings. If two different torques are indicated for two connected components always observe the lower of the two values. Also read the operating instructions for the components if applicable. Not all components are listed in the following table. The torque specifications are basic values and do not apply to carbon components. You can find torque specifications that are tuned to the additional components can be found on the components. Also read the instructions delivered with the components if applicable. Ask your dealer about any missing torque specifications. The following torque specifications can usually be found as specifications on the compo nents or in the accompanying component instructions. Cycle Safety Screw joint Type Torque Handlebars Stem Nm Shift lever Handlebars Gripper clamp Nm Brake arm Handlebars Gripper clamp Nm Stem angle adjustment Nm Stem fork stem Quill type internal clamping Nm mechanism A head external clamping mech Nm anism Stem stem clamp A head Nm Clamping connection with cylin Nm Saddle Seat post der head screws Seat post Screw clamp ring Nm Pedal Crank Flat spanner wrench Nm Front wheel axle Front fork rear Hub dynamo Hub Cotter pin nut Nm wheel axle Frame Front wheel rear wheel hub axle Nm with cap nut When you loosen screw joints and tighten them or when you tighten screw joints that have become loose always leave the screw joints as they were delivered. Some are dry others are greased. Never grease screw joints that were delivered dry. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required have your dealer check the screw joints. Safety Cycle. Notes on screw turning directions NOTE Material damage due to handling screw joints incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Observe the turning direction of screws thru axles and nuts. x Tighten screws thru axles and nuts by turning them clockwise. x Loosen screws thru axles and nuts by turning them anticlockwise. In the event of any deviation from this rule the change in turning direction will be indicated in the respective chapter. Refer to the relevant notes Notes on wear WARNING Malfunction due to excessive wear material fatigue or loose screw joints. Risk of accident and injury! x Check your cycle regularly. x Do not use the cycle if you find excessive wear or loose screw joints. x Do not use the cycle if you find any cracks deformation or dis colouration. x Have the cycle checked by your dealer if you find excessive wear or loose screw joints. Cycle Safety Some cycle components are consumable parts. Heavy stress and incorrect use will in crease and or speed up wear. Different materials have distinct wear characteristics. x Consult your dealer about cycle components that are subject to wear. x Regularly check the condition of all consumable parts see the Before setting off Before every ride and Maintenance chapters. x Clean and maintain consumable parts regularly see the Cleaning and Maintenance chapters. x The following consumable parts are subject to wear in the course of proper use and are not covered against operational wear under the guarantee Wheels rims spokes hubs Rims in conjunction with a rim brake Tyres Chainrings sprockets bottom bracket and rear derailleur rollers Shift and brake cables Shift and brake cable casings Brake pads and brake discs Various other brake components Handlebar tapes and handlebar grips Chains and drive belts Hydraulic fluids and lubricants Suspension element seals Lamps Paintwork Saddle Aluminium handlebars Safety Cycle. Notes on carbon components WARNING Material failure due to invisible cracks after a fall. Risk of accident and injury! x Have carbon components checked by your dealer after over loading or a fall even if they are not visibly damaged. x Have carbon components checked by your dealer at regular in tervals even if they have not been overloaded. x Do not use your cycle if you suspect it is damaged. NOTE Invisible cracks or breaks in the carbon frame. Risk of damage! x Never retrofit a carbon frame with a kickstand. NOTE Invisible cracks or breaks in carbon components. Risk of damage! x Avoid falls and severe impacts so as not to overload carbon components. x Never attempt to repair or straighten carbon components your self. x Have carbon components checked by your dealer after over loading. Cycle Safety Carbon components require specific handling and care. The following points must be not ed during maintenance transportation or storage x Refer to and follow the information enclosed by the manufacturer. x Use a torque wrench to make the correct torque adjustments. x Never lubricate carbon components with conventional grease. Use dedicated fitting lubricants for carbon components. x Never expose carbon components to temperatures above C F. x To avoid damage from falls park your cycle carefully and in a way that prevents it falling over. x Never clamp a carbon frame directly in a work stand. Fit a metal seat post and clamp this in the work stand. x Never retrofit a carbon frame with a kickstand as this may result in damage to the frame Falls and accidents Carbon components can be damaged by a fall or accident. Damage to carbon components is not always visible. Fibres or paint can peel off or be destroyed and the components can lose strength. x Have carbon components replaced by your dealer after a fall or accident Bike carriers A bike carrier is a device for transporting cycles by car. There is a risk of crushing the carbon frame when clamping it in a bike carrier. This may result in material breakage during subse quent use. There are dedicated bike carriers specially designed for carbon bikes. x Ask your dealer about suitable bike carriers Torques Specific torques must be observed for screw joints in carbon components. Permitted tor ques can be found on the respective components. Excessively high torques may result in damage that is difficult to see. Components can break or change and cause falls. When you loosen screw joints and tighten them or when you tighten screw joints that have become loose always leave the screw joints as they were delivered. Some are dry others are greased. Never grease screw joints that were delivered dry. x Refer to the fitting information enclosed by the manufacturer. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required have your dealer check the screw joints. Safety Cycle. Residual risks Even if all safety notes and warnings are observed using the cycle still entails unforesee able risks such as Incorrect behaviour by other road users Unforeseeable road conditions e.g. slipperiness due to black ice Component breakage or failure due to unforeseeable material defects or material fatigue x Ride defensively looking ahead and anticipating. x Check the cycle for cracks discolouration or damage before every ride. x Test the functionality of safety related components such as the brakes lighting and bell before every ride. x Have the cycle checked for damage by your dealer after a fall or accident. Cycle Basic adjustments Basic adjustments This chapter contains information about basic adjustments to the cycle and information about how to put the cycle into use Quick releases NOTE Material breakage due to handling components incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Only pull a quick release lever by hand. Never use tools or other implements to pull the lever. A quick release is a clamping device that al A lows cycle components to be fitted removed or adjusted quickly and without tools. An ec centric mechanism creates tension when the quick release lever is pulled. Quick releases consist of two main elements the quick re lease lever and the quick release adjusting B nut. Quick releases often have two additional Illustr. Quick release structure example springs and sometimes a separate pulley un Quick release adjusting nut der the lever. Quick release lever If no tension is created when the quick re A Open quick release lever lease lever is operated the quick release B Closed quick release lever must be readjusted. x Screw the quick release adjusting nut clockwise onto the axle until you notice that tension is created when you pull the quick release lever. Basic adjustments Cycle. Saddle WARNING Incorrect adjustment of the seat post. Risk of accident and injury! x Observe the minimum insertion depth for the seat post. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to ad just the seat post contact your dealer. NOTE Material breakage due to handling components incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Only pull a quick release lever by hand. Never use tools or other implements to pull the lever. x Please note that for cycles with carbon frames if the seat post is removed the gripper clamp on the seat tube opening may not be closed. x Shortening the seat post is not permitted. This can cause the seat tube to break or crack. x If the seat post is removed secure the gripper clamp on the seat tube opening to prevent it from being lost. x Have the saddle adjusted by your dealer so that you can sit in a comfortable position easily operate all the components on the handlebars and touch the ground with at least the tips of your toes. Cycle Basic adjustments Adjusting the saddle height The cycle may be equipped with a rigid seat post or a telescopic seat post depending on the model. Both types of seat post can be fastened using either a seat post clamp with a clamp bolt or a quick release seat post clamp. The seat post clamp allows the height of the saddle to be adjusted. For some cycle models it is not possible to completely lower the seat post into the seat tube. If the seat post hits an obstacle in the seat tube pull the seat post up wards approximately mm. from this point and fasten it there. Illustr. optimum saddle height If you are unable to achieve an optimum seating posi example tion in this way have a shorter seat post installed by your dealer if necessary. x For more information about telescopic seat posts read the Telescopic seat post chapter. If your cycle has a seat post clamp with a clamp bolt. Hold the saddle firmly and loosen the clamp bolt by turning it anticlockwise until the seat post can be moved in the seat tube Pull the seat post out to the desired height. x Follow the minimum insertion depth and minimum pull out height specifications Tighten the clamp bolt by turning it clockwise to fasten the seat post clamp. x Observe the permitted torque see the Safety Notes on torques chapter Check whether the saddle is correctly positioned. It must not twist. x If you can twist the saddle check the seat post clamp. If your cycle has a seat post clamp with a quick release. Hold the saddle firmly and pull the quick release lever outwards Pull the seat post out to the desired height. x Follow the minimum insertion depth and minimum pull out height speci fications. Illustr. Quick release example Adjustment screw Quick release lever Basic adjustments Cycle. Fasten the seat post clamp by pulling the quick release lever inwards until it touches the seat tube. x If you cannot pull the clamping lever by hand then the preload is too high. Correct the preload by loosening the adjustment screw a little and pull the clamping lever again Check whether the saddle is correctly positioned. It must not twist. x If you can twist the saddle the preload is too low. Correct the preload by tighten ing the adjustment screw a little Minimum insertion depth Seat posts have a minimum insertion depth marked on their tubing and must be inserted up to at least this point in the seat tube. WARNING Cracking or breakage to the seat tube due to shortening the seat post. Risk of accident and injury! x Observe the minimum insertion depth for the seat post. x Never shorten the seat post. x Observe the minimum insertion depth for the seat post. The marking on the seat post must not be visible see Illustr. Seat post minimum insertion depth. x Have the saddle height adjusted by your dealer. Illustr. Seat post minimum insertion depth example Seat post clamp Minimum insertion depth marking Cycle Basic adjustments Adjusting the minimum pull out height The minimum pull out height is the minimum height to which the seat post must be pulled out of the seat tube. This chapter applies to S pedelecs and cycles with telescopic seat posts. NOTE Failure to observe the minimum pull out height. Risk of damage! x Adjust the height of the saddle so as not to damage any cables or connecting wires inside the seat tube. x For S pedelecs pull the seat post out until any parts of the lighting set if present and or licence plate are not obscured. If the cycle is equipped with a telescopic seat post x Refer to and follow information from the manufacturer. x Have your dealer adjust the saddle height and give you instructions on operation Adjusting the saddle tilt The saddle tilt must be adjusted to prevent your weight being supported on the handle bars. The optimum saddle position is horizontal Loosen the saddle clamp bolt s under the saddle Adjust the saddle tilt. Ensure that the tilt angle adjustment mechanism if present is correctly locked in place Tighten the saddle clamp bolt s by screwing clockwise using the recommended torque. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required have the saddle tilt adjusted by your dealer. Basic adjustments Cycle Adjusting the reach The seating position must be adapted to suit the size of the rider. To do this the distance between the saddle and handlebars can be increased or decreased by moving the saddle horizontally Loosen the saddle clamp bolt s under the saddle Adjust the reach. When doing so observe the clamping range which is generally marked on the saddle rails. x To shorten the reach push the saddle towards the handlebars. x To lengthen the reach push the saddle towards the rear wheel Tighten the saddle clamp bolt s by screwing clockwise using the recommended torque. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required have the reach adjusted by your dealer Handlebars and handlebar stems WARNING Material breakage due to adjusting the handlebar height incorrectly. Risk of accident and injury! x Have the handlebars adjusted by your dealer. x Do not make any adjustments to the handlebars if you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required. x Observe the minimum insertion depth for the handlebar stem. Handlebar stems connect the cycle handlebars to the front fork. A rigid or adjustable handlebar stem may be fitted depending on the cycle model. There is a distinction between handlebar stems with internal clamping mechanisms and handlebar stems which cover the fork stem and are clamped with bolts from outside. Parameters for a handlebar stem include Diameter of the fork stem diameter of the han dlebar clamping mechanism length angle and height. Handlebar height is among the adjustments that must be made in adapting the cycle to suit the size of the rider. x Have the handlebars adjusted by your dealer so that you can sit in a comfortable posi tion and easily operate all the components on the handlebars. Cycle Basic adjustments Minimum insertion depth Quill type handlebar stems have a minimum insertion depth marked on their tubing and must be inserted up to at least this point in the fork stem. x Observe the minimum insertion depth for the handlebar stem. The marking on the handlebar stem or handlebar shaft must not be visible see Illustr. Minimum insertion depth marking on a quill type stem with an internal clamping mecha nism. Illustr. Minimum insertion depth marking on a x Note that height adjustments to A head quill type stem with an internal clamping handlebar stems which cover the fork mechanism example stem and are clamped with bolts from outside require expertise. With this type of handlebar stem the handlebar height is adjusted using spacing washers and limited by the fork stem length. x Have your dealer carry out the adjustment Adjusting the handlebar stem tilt Depending on the cycle model the cycle may be equipped with a handlebar stem that includes a tilt angle adjustment mechanism. The handlebar tilt must be adjusted so that your wrists and forearms are in line when riding. x Carefully loosen the side screw until the splines release. x Press the screw head with your thumb to loosen the handlebar stem. Illustr. Side screw on the handlebar stem example Basic adjustments Cycle x Adjust the tilt of the movable handlebar stem to your liking. x Press the loosened adjustment mecha nism back into the handlebar stem until the pawl is correctly engaged with the splines. x Tighten the screw by turning it clockwise using the recommended torque. Illustr. Tilt adjustment example Aligning the handlebars The handlebars must be at a angle to the front wheel. x Have the handlebars adjusted by your dealer if they are not perpendicular to the front wheel see Illustr. Correct handlebar alignment. Illustr. Correct handlebar alignment example. Controls Controls e.g. the bell brake levers gear shifting system etc. must be arranged so that they can be operated easily while riding without distracting you from the road and if pos sible without taking your hands off the handlebar grips. x Have the controls adjusted by your dealer if you lack the necessary expertise or the tools required Brake lever WARNING Loss of brake power due to incorrectly adjusted brakes. Risk of accident and injury! x Have brake adjustments carried out by your dealer only. x Do not make any adjustments to the brakes if you lack the nec essary expertise or the tools required. Cycle Basic adjustments x Adjustments to the brake system are highly complex and require expertise. Have your dealer carry out the adjustment Check the arrangement of the brake lever x Check the arrangement of the brake lever and accustom yourself to any different arrangement of the brake levers. The brake levers are typically installed as follows for the bicycle pedelec exception possi ble in the UK Right for rear Left for front In the case of just one hand brake coaster brake right for front The brake levers are typically installed as follows for the S pedelec Left for rear Right for front Adjusting the position The position of the brake levers must be cus tom adjusted so that the levers can be oper ated easily and safely. x Loosen the brake lever fastening by turning the brake lever screw anticlock wise see Illustr. Brake lever position. x Position the brake lever at a point where your fingers wrist and arm are in line and your fingers are resting comfortably on Illustr. Brake lever position example the brake lever and where you can pull the lever safely. x Tighten the brake lever screw by turning it clockwise. Ensure that the torque is correct. Illustr. ergonomic hand position example Basic adjustments Cycle Adjusting the grip width The grip width of the brake levers must be A custom adjusted so that the levers can be operated easily and safely. Mechanical and hydraulic brakes generally have an adjust ment screw on the brake lever see Illustr. Adjustment screw position. Turning the ad justment screw alters the distance between the brake lever and the handlebar grip. The B position of the adjustment screw may vary depending on the brake design If applicable remove the protective cap from the adjustment screw Adjust the brake lever to the grip width of your hand by loosening or tightening the adjustment screw. C. Check the minimum distance by operat ing the brake lever. x If the distance between the operated brake lever and the handlebar grip is less than cm. adjust the cable tension or pressure point see the Brake Adjustments Adjusting the Illustr. Adjustment screw position example brake cable tension in mechanical Grip width adjustment screw brakes chapter or Brake Adjust ments Adjusting the pressure point chapter If applicable place the protective cap over the adjustment screw. Cycle Basic adjustments. Pedals The pedals are attached to the cranks. The cycle is powered by pedalling with your feet. The cycle may be equipped with folding pedals block pedals or clipless pedals depending on the cycle model. x When fitting pedals note that the right pedal has a right hand thread and the left pedal has a left hand thread. In both cases the pedal is tightened in the crank by screwing it in the direction of travel. Both pedals are loosened by unscrewing them counter to the direction of travel Folding pedal CAUTION Folding pedals in and out incorrectly. Risk of injury! x Ensure that you do not get your fingers caught in the folding mechanism. x Wear protective gloves if necessary. A folding pedal is a pedal with a folding mechanism. When storing or transporting the cy cle the pedals can be folded in so that they sit close up against the cycle. x Familiarise yourself with the folding system before using it for the first time. x Refer to and follow the information enclosed by the manufacturer about using folding pedals. x Have your dealer explain the folding mechanism to you if necessary. Illustr. Folding pedal folded out example Illustr. Folding pedal folded in example Basic adjustments Cycle Block pedal A block pedal is the traditional pedal variant see Illustr. Block pedal. Illustr. Block pedal example Clipless pedal WARNING Falling due to not disengaging shoes from the clipless system in time. Risk of accident and injury! x Disengage your shoes from the pedals clipless system in good time before stopping. x Keep off the road while you practice engaging and disengaging your shoes from the clipless system. A clipless pedal has a device that allows spe cially designed shoes to be locked in place see Illustr. Clipless pedal. Engaging your shoes in the clipless system keeps your feet firmly connected with the pedals providing better grip and stability. x Familiarise yourself with the clipless sys tem before using it for the first time. x Adjust the release force and the cleats Illustr. Clipless pedal example before the first use. x If you lack the necessary expertise to adjust the pedals contact your dealer. Cycle Basic adjustments Foot clearance WARNING Risk of falling due to insufficient foot clearance. Risk of accident and injury! x Ensure there is adequate foot clearance depending on the foot anchoring system. x Have the foot anchoring system fitted by a dealer. With racing bikes the distance between the pedal and the front wheel must not fall below a certain foot clearance value. The distance is measured parallel to the longitudinal axis of the cycle from the midpoint of the pedals to the arc of the front wheel at full steering lock see Illustr. Distance between the pedal and front wheel. Foot clearance on racing bikes Illustr. Distance between the pedal and front without a foot anchoring mm. wheel example system Front wheel with a foot anchoring mm. Arc of the front wheel at full steering lock system Foot clearance distance between the pedal and front wheel Foot anchoring systems e.g. clipless pedals or toe clips Pedal midpoint Basic adjustments Cycle. Lighting DANGER Poor visibility to other road users. Risk of accident and injury! x Switch on lighting in poor visual conditions and in the dark. WARNING Inattention on the road due to switching on lighting. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not switch on lighting while riding. Always stop to switch on the lighting. WARNING Certain standard pre assembled lighting devices can develop a good deal of heat especially when stationary and cause burns if touched. Risk of injury! x Do not touch the lighting during or shortly after operation to avoid burns. In order to ride on the road lighting and reflectors must meet national and regional regu lations. x Refer to and follow national and regional regulations on lighting equipment. x Acquaint yourself with these before your first ride. Retrofit your cycle to meet the regulations if necessary. Contact your dealer about this. Lighting consists of a headlamp rear lamp and reflectors and ensures better visibility in poor visual conditions and at night. The cycle may be equipped with hub dynamo fixed lighting or battery powered clip on lighting depending on the cycle model. Cycle Basic adjustments Hub dynamo The hub dynamo to which the headlamp is connected is located in the front wheel hub. The rear lamp is linked to the headlamp. The hub dynamo supplies the lighting with power as soon as the front wheel is turned. With a hub dynamo the lighting is generally switched on directly from the headlamp or from the handlebars. When the switch is operated the rear lamp is switched on along with the headlamp. x Switch the lighting on and off by operating the switch. Depending on the lighting model there may be an integrated light sensor. In automatic mode the headlamp and rear lamp are switched on and off automatically depending on the light conditions. x Adjust to automatic mode to switch on the light sensor. Depending on the lighting model the rear lamp on your cycle may have a standing light feature which allows the rear lamp to remain lit for several minutes even when you stop riding. This feature does not need to be switched on separately. There are various types of headlamp with different switch options. Have your dealer explain how they are operated and how they function Battery powered and rechargeable lighting Depending on the lighting model the headlamp and rear lamp may be equipped with dif ferent switches and need to be operated independently of each other. x Switch the lighting on and off by operating the relevant switch. x Refer to the information enclosed by the manufacturer about operating and fitting battery powered and rechargeable lighting. Basic adjustments Cycle Headlamp. Switch on the headlamp. m. ft. Adjust the headlamp so that at a dis tance of m. ft in front of the head lamp the light beam reaches a point only half as high as at its starting point see Illustr. Adjusting the headlamp. x An incorrectly adjusted headlamp can dazzle other road users. Illustr. Adjusting the headlamp example Rear lamp A rear lamp must be installed in an easily visible location at the back of the cycle. x Check that the rear lamp is functional and unobscured before riding off Reflectors Reflectors must be installed in an easily visible location on the cycle and must not be ob scured. Generally reflectors are located on the pedals the tyres the rear lamp and the headlamp. x Check that all reflectors are undamaged and visible before riding off Suspension This chapter contains information for the following cycle categories WARNING Loss of traction due to incorrectly adjusted suspension. Risk of accident and injury! x Have the suspension adjusted by your dealer. x Have your dealer explain how your suspension is operated and adjusted. Cycle Basic adjustments NOTE Impact noises due to incorrectly adjusted suspension. Risk of damage! x If you feel hard impacts or hear unusual noises upon compres sion have the suspension checked by your dealer. Suspension reduces the forces acting on the rider when the road is uneven. On bumpy ground cycles with tuned suspension are more efficient and more comfortable to ride. x Refer to and follow the information enclosed by the manufacturer about features and adjustments for your suspension. Brake Cycle Brake. Basics The cycle is equipped with at least two independent brakes. Depending on the cycle mod el the following brakes may be installed Coaster brake Rim brake Disc brake Coaster brake Cycles with hub shifting systems and cycles without gear shifting systems are frequently equipped with a coaster brake. This is inte grated in the cycle s rear wheel hub and oper ated using the pedals see Illustr. Coaster brake. Illustr. Coaster brake example Brake lever The brakes are operated using the brake levers. Force is transmitted mechanically or hy draulically. In the case of a mechanical design the force from the brake lever is transmit ted to the brake via a cable. In the case of a hydraulic design the force from the brake lever is transmitted to the brake via brake lines which contain brake fluid. If the cycle is equipped with just one brake lever this operates the front brake. The rear brake is the coaster brake. If the cycle is equipped with two brake levers the left hand brake lever is generally for the front brake while the right hand brake lever is for the rear brake see Illustr. Brake lever ar rangement. x Note that the arrangement of the brake Illustr. Brake lever arrangement example levers may vary. Familiarise yourself with Front brake lever the brake lever arrangement before set Rear brake lever ting off. Contact your dealer if you would like to have the brake lever arrangement changed. Cycle Brake Disc brake The brake discs are fastened to the wheel hubs with the corresponding brake calliper fastened to the frame or front fork see Illus tr. Disc brake. The brake pads are located inside the brake calliper. When the brake lever is operated the brake pads are pressed against the brake disc and brake the wheel. Illustr. Disc brake example Brake calliper Brake disc Rim brake Rim brakes are fastened to the front fork or rear frame. When operated the brake block holders are pressed against the braking surface of the rim sidewall to brake the wheel see Illustr. Mechanical rim brakes and Illustr. Hydraulic rim brake. Depending on the brake design mechanical rim brakes may be equipped with a brake force modulator. The brake force modulator partially regulates the brake lever force at the front and prevents the front wheel locking up. The brake force modulator is installed be tween the brake lever and rim brake. Illustr. Mechanical rim brakes example Cable Tyre Rim Brake block holders Brake Cycle Illustr. Hydraulic rim brake example Brake line Tyre Rim Brake block holders Cycle Brake. Operation WARNING Risk of overturning due to pulling the front brake. Risk of accident and injury! x Use the front brake lever carefully at high speeds to prevent overturning. x Always brake using both brakes simultaneously for optimum brake power. x Adapt the braking force from the brakes to suit the riding situ ation road conditions and weather so that you avoid locking up the wheels. x Use the rear brake carefully when cornering to prevent the rear wheel locking up. WARNING Longer braking distance due to reduced brake power in the wet. Risk of accident and injury! x Adapt your riding style and speed to suit the weather and road conditions Operating the brake lever x To operate a brake lever pull it towards the handlebar grip with your fingers. Illustr. Operating the brake lever example Brake lever Handlebar grip Brake Cycle Operating the coaster brake WARNING No coaster brake action where the chain has dropped off the chain ring. Risk of accident and injury! x If the coaster brake has no effect brake carefully using the front brake lever and also the rear brake lever if applicable. The coaster brake only functions when riding forwards. The coaster brake is operated most effectively if the pedals are in a horizontal position with the downward force acting on the rear pedal. Operate the brake levers when rolling backwards. The coaster brake is operated by back pedal ling and brakes the rear wheel see Illustr. Operating the coaster brake. x Ensure that the crankset is functional as the braking force is transmitted via the chain. x To operate the coaster brake pedal coun ter to the direction of travel. Illustr. Operating the coaster brake example. Bedding in disc brakes New brakes must be bedded in before they can reach their full brake power. x Keep off the road while bedding in the brakes. x Brake in a controlled manner to prevent the wheels locking up. x Operate both brake levers simultaneously. x Bedding in consists of around short periods of braking. Brake from around km h. mph down to a stop. The bedding in process is complete when a con sistent brake action is produced upon steadily operating the brake lever. Cycle Brake. Maintaining braking force Diminished brake action in disc brakes due to the brake system overheating is known as fading. When the temperature at the point of contact between the brake pads and brake disc rises e.g. due to continuous braking the brake power drops. x Avoid long periods of continuous braking. x Allow the brake pads to cool down regularly. x Do not use the cycle if the brake power is reduced due to warming. x Only use the cycle again once full brake power is restored ABS system It is possible that an ABS system is installed on your vehicle. The ABS system works in such a way that when the brakes are applied sensors on the front wheel detect the critical tightening pressure limit it and thus stabilise the vehicle. Once the vehicle has been stabilised the ABS system continuously builds up the applica tion pressure of the brakes until the front wheel is brought back to the locking limit. If the front wheel locks again the pressure is released again. The process is repeated to keep the front wheel at the limit of adhesion at all times thus keeping the friction between the tyres and the road surface at an optimum level. All further information on the ABS system can be found in the additional instructions sup plied. Brake Cycle. Adjustments The grip width must be custom adjusted so that the brake lever can be op erated easily and safely see the Basic adjustments Brake lever Adjust ing the grip width chapter Adjusting the brake cable tension in mechanical brakes WARNING Loss of brake action due to worn brake pads and cables. Risk of accident and injury! x Replace worn brake pads and cables. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to re place these contact your dealer. With mechanical brakes minor brake pad wear is offset via the brake cable tension. Changing the brake cable tension alters the distance between the rim and the brake block holders. The position of the lock nut and knurled screw may vary depending on the cycle model Loosen the lock nut by giving it one turn anticlockwise To increase the cable tension gradually turn the knurled screw anticlockwise until the distance between the brake block holders and the rim is mm on each side. x Ensure that the brake block holders meet the rim simultaneously on both sides. x Ensure that the wheel turns smooth Illustr. Lock nut and knurled screw position ly see the Wheels and tyres Rims example and spokes chapter. Lock nut Knurled screw Cycle Brake. Tighten the lock nut by turning it clockwise. x If the brake cannot be adjusted through the cable tension have the brake adjust ed by your dealer Adjusting the pressure point With hydraulic brakes minor break pad wear is offset via the pressure point adjustment screw see Illustr. Adjustment screw posi tion. The adjustment screw is generally lo cated on the brake lever. Brakes without an adjustment screw have the distance adjusted automatically. The distance between the rim and brake pad Illustr. Adjustment screw position example is increased or decreased depending on the Pressure point adjustment screw turning direction. x For rim brakes gradually turn the adjust ment screw until the distance between the rim and each brake pad is mm x Ensure that the brake block holders meet the rim simultaneously on both sides. x Ensure that the wheel turns smoothly see the Wheels and tyres Rims and spokes chapter. x For disc brakes gradually turn the adjustment screw until the desired pressure point is reached. Derailleur shifting system Cycle Derailleur shifting system. Basics Usually all modern cycles have a gear shifting system installed this depends on the cycle model. Exceptions include children s bikes which may only have one gear depending on the model. The gear shifting system on a cycle consists of a variable gear unit and the corresponding controls. As a result the power provided by the rider is adapted to suit the riding speed and route conditions. A derailleur shifting system consists of to chainrings on the crankset and to sprockets on the rear wheel see Illustr. Components of a derailleur shifting system. Separate controls on the right and in some cases the left hand side of the handlebars are generally used to shift sprockets and chainrings see the Derailleur shifting system Op eration chapter. Adjustments to the gear shifting system require expertise. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required contact your dealer Mechanical derailleur shifting system x When shifting gear pedal only gently. The theoretical number of gears is deter mined with a chainrings sprockets calcu lation see the Derailleur shifting system Basics Gear combinations chapter. The smaller the sprocket the higher the se lected gear and the lower the cadence. The larger the sprocket the lower the select ed gear and the higher the cadence. Illustr. Components of a derailleur shifting system example The smaller the chainring the higher the ca Shift cable dence. Cassette of several sprockets on the rear x Use a low gear on inclines. wheel x Use a high gear for higher speeds on flat Chainrings on the crankset routes. Chain Cycle Derailleur shifting system Electronic derailleur shifting system An electronic derailleur shifting system is powered by a rechargeable battery which pro vides electricity for the front and rear derailleurs. It functions the same way as a mechan ical derailleur shifting system. The shifter buttons can be pressed in quick succession. The shifting system registers how many times they have been pressed then moves the chain quickly and precisely. The shifting system automatically prevents an excessively crossed chain line. The cycle generally a racing bike or MTB may have an electronic shifting system depending on the model. Gears are shifted up or down by pressing the relevant shift lever. The electronics ensure that the gears are changed quickly. x Contact your dealer for further information and if you have any questions or refer to the manual enclosed with the electronic derailleur shifting system Gear combinations NOTE Incorrect use of gear combinations. Risk of damage! x Never combine the small chainring with the smallest sprockets or the large chainring with the largest sprockets. Derailleur shifting system Cycle With incorrect gear combinations a crossed chain results in increased wear on the chain rings sprockets and chain. Proper use only allows for certain gear com binations see Illustr. Gear combinations. x Use the gear combinations in such a way that the chain runs parallel to the direc tion of travel. x Use the smallest chainring on inclines Illustr. Gear combinations example and the largest chainring for higher sprockets on the rear wheel speeds on flat routes. chainrings on the crankset x If you are unsure about operating the gear shifting system have your dealer give you instructions Operation WARNING Inattention on the road. Risk of accident and injury! x Familiarise yourself with the features of the gear shifting sys tem before your first ride. x Only operate the gear shifting system if it will not take any of your attention off the road. x Stop if you cannot operate the gear shifting system safely e.g. in the event of a malfunction. Cycle Derailleur shifting system NOTE Increased wear and damage due to operating the gear shifting sys tem incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Do not pedal hard when shifting gears. x Do not back pedal when shifting gears. x Shift down in good time before inclines. x Always start riding in a low gear lower third of the available gears e.g. at maximum gears if gears are available. x If you are not familiar with gear shifting systems have your dealer explain how the shifting system is operated Shifting sprockets The arrangement of the shift levers top or bottom of the handlebars and their operation may vary depending on the model. The gear shifting control for the sprocket cassette is located on the handlebars to the right see Illustr. Handlebar control for shifting sprock ets and chainrings. x To shift onto the next largest sprocket press the lower shift lever. x Some models offer the possibility of shifting down multiple gears at once. To do this press the shift lever further. x To shift onto the next smallest sprocket press the upper shift lever. x Some models offer the possibility of shifting up a gear by pulling the shift lever in the opposite direction with your index finger. x Once operated release the shift lever so that it can automatically return to its starting position. If your cycle model is equipped with a twist grip control x Twist grip controls are generally marked with numbers for the individual gears. Turn the twist grip control in the relevant direction to shift up or down. Illustr. Twist grip control example Derailleur shifting system Cycle Shifting chainrings The arrangement of the shift levers top or bottom of the handlebars and their operation may vary depending on the model. The gear shifting control for the sprocket cassette is located on the handlebars to the left see Illustr. Handlebar control for shifting sprockets and chainrings. x To shift onto the next largest chainring press the lower shift lever. x To shift onto the next smallest chainring pull the upper shift lever on the left hand side of the handlebars. x Once pressed release the shift lever so that it can automatically return to its starting position. Illustr. Handlebar control for shifting sprockets and chainrings on the right hand side of the handlebars here as an example Upper shift lever Lower shift lever If your cycle model is equipped with a twist grip control x Twist grip controls are generally marked with numbers for the individual gears. Turn the twist grip control in the relevant direction to shift up or down see Illustr. Twist grip control Electronic derailleur shifting system An electronic derailleur shifting system requires dedicated button controls on the handle bars. The shifter buttons can be pressed in quick succession. The shifting system regis ters how many times they have been pressed then moves the chain quickly and precisely. The shifting system automatically prevents an excessively crossed chain line. Cycle Derailleur shifting system Derailleur hub shifting system Dual Drive x If your cycle is equipped with a combined derailleur hub shifting system read the Hub shifting systems Operation Derailleur hub shifting system Dual Drive chap ter as well Operating the shift levers on a racing bike Racing bikes with curved handlebars are usually equipped with a racing bike shift brake arm. The racing bike s shift levers are built into the brake handle. Depending on the model of the gear shifting system gears may be shifted by moving the brake lever or by operat ing shift levers. On straight handlebars the shift levers are located underneath the han dlebars as with other types of cycle see the Derailleur shifting system chapter. Ask your dealer how the shift levers are operated. Keep off the road while you practice shifting gears to familiarise yourself with how the shift levers function. Derailleur shifting system Cycle. Adjustments WARNING Dropped or jammed chain due to an incorrectly adjusted gear shift ing system. Risk of accident and injury! x Adjust the gear shifting system. x If you lack the necessary expertise or the tools required contact your dealer. CAUTION Pinching and crushing of body parts by moving components. Risk of injury! x Be careful when handling moving parts so as not to get your fingers caught. x Wear protective gloves if necessary. NOTE An incorrectly adjusted gear shifting system can cause damage to the system itself. Risk of damage! x Adjust the gear shifting system. x If you lack the necessary expertise or the tools required contact your dealer. Cycle Derailleur shifting system To shift gears smoothly it is important that the front and rear derailleurs are precisely ad justed see Illustr. Components of a derail leur shifting system. x If the derailleur shifting system does not function or makes a noise when oper L ated have the system adjusted by your Illustr. Components of a derailleur shifting system dealer. example Shift cable Front derailleur Rear derailleur Adjusting the rear derailleur To keep the chain and rear derailleur out of the spokes and prevent the chain falling off the smallest sprocket the stop screws L and H limit the range through which the rear de railleur can pivot see Illustr. Diagram of a rear derailleur. L stands for low gear. H stands for high gear. To adjust the rear derailleur follow these steps Illustr. Diagram of a rear derailleur example. Shift the chain onto the largest chainring Largest sprocket and the smallest sprocket at the rear Smallest sprocket derailleur. H stop screw. Turn the H stop screw until the guide L stop screw pulley is exactly underneath the smallest Guide pulley sprocket. Derailleur shifting system Cycle. Pull the shift cable taut and fix it in place using the cable tensioning screw on the chain stays see Illustr. Adjusting the rear derailleur Shift the chain onto the smallest chain ring and the largest sprocket Ensure that the chain does not touch the spokes under any circumstances. If Illustr. Adjusting the rear derailleur example necessary correct this using the L stop Cable tensioning screw on the chain stays screw see Illustr. Front derailleur Adjusting the front derailleur x Shift the chain onto the smallest chain ring. x Adjust the distance from the inner cage using the L stop screw. The distance should be. mm see Illustr. Front derailleur. x Shift the chain onto the largest chainring. x Adjust the distance from the outer cage using the H stop screw. The distance Illustr. Front derailleur example should be. mm H stop screw L stop screw Cycle Derailleur shifting system Readjusting the shift cable tension x If noises are produced after shifting gear while riding correct the shift cable tension using the cable tensioning screw on the shift lever see Illustr. Cable tensioning screw on the shift lever. x To do this give the cable tensioning screw a half turn. x If the noises decrease turn the cable tensioning screw little by little in the same direction until no more noises are produced when riding. x If the noises increase turn the cable tensioning screw little by little in the opposite direction until no more nois Illustr. Cable tensioning screw on the shift lever es are produced when riding. example x If noises continue to be produced after shifting gear while riding have the gear shifting system adjusted by your dealer Adjusting the derailleur shifting system on a racing bike If the racing bike has shift cables where the adjustment screw is equipped with an adjust ing wheel then the cable tension in the derail leur shifting system can be readjusted there. x To increase the cable tension turn the wheel of the adjustment screw anticlock wise. x To reduce the cable tension turn the wheel of the adjustment screw clock wise. Illustr. Adjusting the derailleur shifting system example Adjustment screw with wheel for adjusting the cable tension To adjust the rear derailleur see the Derailleur shifting system Adjust ments Adjusting the rear derailleur chapter. Hub shifting systems Cycle Hub shifting systems. Basics Usually all modern cycles have a gear shifting system installed this depends on the cycle model. Exceptions include children s bikes which may only have one gear depending on the model. The gear shifting system on a cycle consists of a variable gear unit and the corresponding controls. As a result the power provided by the rider is adapted to suit the riding speed and route conditions. Adjustments to the gear shifting system re quire expertise. x If you lack the necessary expertise and Illustr. Components of a hub shifting system ex the tools required to adjust the hub shift ample ing system contact your dealer. Fastening ring Ratchet Holder Automatic shifting system Automatix This chapter applies to models with an optional Automatix gear shifting system see the specifications data sheet provided by the dealer. The rear wheel hub is equipped with an automatic shifting system. Depending on the speed the gear shifting system automatically switches to the nd gear or to the st gear respectively. Automatix gear shifting systems are available both with a freewheel and with a coaster brake. Check the data sheet completed by your dealer to find out which variant is installed. x If the gear shifting system does not shift gear automatically or produces noises have the system checked by your dealer. Cycle Hub shifting systems Stepless gear shifting system NuVinci This chapter applies to models with an optional NuVinci stepless gear shifting system see the specifications data sheet provided by the dealer. The rear wheel hub is equipped with a stepless gear shifting system. The gear shifting system is infinitely adjustable by turning the twist grip control. NuVinci gear shifting systems are available both with a freewheel and with a coaster brake. Check the data sheet completed by your dealer to find out which variant is installed Stepless automatic gear shifting system NuVinci Harmony This chapter applies to models with an optional NuVinci Harmony stepless automatic gear shifting system see the specifications data sheet provided by the dealer. The rear wheel hub is equipped with a stepless automatic gear shifting system which is not operated manually but instead adapts to your speed and cadence automatically Electronic hub shifting system An electronic hub shifting system requires dedicated button controls on the handlebars. The shifter buttons can be pressed in quick succession. The shifting system registers how many times they have been pressed then changes gear accordingly Operation WARNING Inattention on the road. Risk of accident and injury! x Familiarise yourself with the features of the gear shifting sys tem before your first ride. x Only operate the gear shifting system if it will not take any of your attention off the road. x Stop if you cannot operate the gear shifting system safely e.g. in the event of a malfunction. Hub shifting systems Cycle NOTE Increased wear and damage due to operating the gear shifting sys tem incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Do not pedal hard when shifting gears. x Do not back pedal when shifting gears. x Shift down in good time before inclines. x Always start riding in a low gear lower third of the available gears e.g. at maximum gears if gears are available. Depending on your cycle model a twist grip control or shift lever with gear display may be installed. Twist grip controls with a gear display are generally installed and these are described here as an example. Hub shifting systems are either stepless or have a number of gear levels. x If you have no experience with gear shifting systems have your dealer explain how the shifting system is operated Hub shifting systems with gear levels x To shift up or down turn the twist grip control to the desired position see Illustr. Twist grip control. Illustr. Twist grip control example Cycle Hub shifting systems Stepless hub shifting systems x Turn the twist grip control to shift up or down to an infinitely variable level see Illustr. Stepless twist grip control. Illustr. Stepless twist grip control example Display Flat Incline Derailleur hub shifting system Dual Drive x Set the shift lever to the left when riding up an incline see Illustr. DualDrive combined twist grip and shift lever control. x Position the shift lever in the middle on flat routes. x Position the shift lever to the right on downhill routes. Illustr. DualDrive combined twist grip and shift x Turn the twist grip control to shift up or lever control example down. Hub shifting systems Cycle. Adjustments WARNING Gear slippage and ineffective pedalling due to an incorrectly adjust ed gear shifting system. Risk of accident and injury! x Adjust the gear shifting system. x If you lack the necessary expertise or the tools required contact your dealer. NOTE An incorrectly adjusted gear shifting system can cause damage to the system itself. Risk of damage! x Adjust the gear shifting system. x If you lack the necessary expertise or the tools required contact your dealer. Adjustments to hub shifting systems may only be carried out by your dealer Adjusting the shift cable tension Shift cable tension adjustment is dependent on the model of your hub shifting system. x Check what hub shifting system is installed on your cycle see the specifications data sheet provided by the dealer. x If the functionality of the hub shifting system declines adjust the shift cable tension. Cycle Hub shifting systems. Adjust the twist grip control or shift lever to the middle gear setting. In a or speed system this corresponds to th gear see Illustr. Adjustment screw on the twist grip control. Illustr. Adjustment screw on the twist grip control example Gear level Adjustment screw. Adjust the twist grip control adjustment screw see Illustr. Adjustment screw on the twist grip control so that the two coloured markings on the rear wheel hub match up see Illustr. Adjustment LOCK marking Check the adjustments with a test ride. x If you were unable to rectify the mal function have the shift cable tension adjusted by your dealer. A hub shifting system with a shift box may be Illustr. Adjustment marking example installed depending on the cycle model. x Check the rear axle of the cycle to see whether a shift box is installed Adjust the twist grip control or shift lever to the middle gear setting. In a or speed system this corresponds to th gear see Illustr. Shift box Adjust the adjustment nut so that the markings on the shift box match up see Illustr. Shift box Check the adjustments with a test ride. Illustr. Shift box example x If you were unable to rectify the malfunc tion have the shift cable tension adjusted Marking by your dealer. Adjustment nut Hub shifting systems Cycle Adjusting the shift cable tension in a NuVinci shifting system x If there is less than. mm. of play between the shift cable casing and the barrel turn the adjustment nut clockwise see Illustr. Play between the shift cable casing left and adjustment screw right x If there is more than. mm. of Illustr. Play between the shift cable casing left play turn the adjustment nut anticlock and adjustment screw right example wise mm x Refer to the information enclosed with Shift cable casing the cycle by the shifting system manu Barrel facturer. Adjustment screw x If you were unable to rectify the mal function have the gear shifting system adjusted by your dealer. Cycle Pinion gearbox Pinion gearbox A Pinion gearbox is a bottom bracket shifting system. A Pinion gearbox can be used with a chain or a belt drive not illustrated. The Pin ion gearbox has a twist grip control fastened to the handlebars for shifting gears. In a Pin ion gearbox the chain is adjusted with a chain adjuster see Illustr. Pinion gearbox with chain drive or with movable fork ends not il lustrated. For belt tensioning see the Belt drive Checking the belt tension chapter. The Illustr. Pinion gearbox with a chain drive example Pinion gearbox is an oil bath gearbox see the Sprocket Pinion gearbox Oil change chapter. It is not Chain possible to use a coaster brake with a Pinion Chainring gearbox. Pinion gearbox. Before every ride Chain adjuster WARNING Component failure. Risk of accident and injury! x Observe the maximum rider weight limit of kg lbs in cluding luggage and or backpack. x Only use your Pinion gearbox cycle in ambient temperatures be tween C and C F and F. Pinion gearbox Cycle WARNING Chain or belt motion while the crank is stationary. Risk of accident and injury! x Before every ride make sure that the sprockets and rear wheel hub can freewheel smoothly. x Turn the crank backwards. The chain must not revolve when the sprockets and rear wheel hub are freewheeling. x Stop if damage occurs to the Pinion gearbox or unusual noises are produced Shifting gears with a Pinion gearbox Note that the shifting behaviour of a Pinion gearbox both with a chain and with a belt drive is different to that of a derailleur shifting system. Keep off the road while you familiarise yourself with the Pinion gearbox and the change in shifting behaviour. The marking on the fixed part of the twist grip control shows the selected gear for example between and. x To shift into a higher or lower gear first move the twist grip control slightly in the direction you want to shift then quickly shift in the desired direction. It is possible to shift through multiple gears at once such as from to. Gears can be shifted while at a standstill and while the crank is stationary or turning backwards. There is limited potential for shifting down under load for example from to. To protect the Pinion gearbox gears are not shifted when the pressure on the crank or pedal is too strong such as when riding out of the saddle. x Only shift down when there is not a heavy load on the crank or pedal. Cycle Pinion gearbox There is potential for shifting up under load for example from to. Exceptions to this are gear changes from to and from to as the gear box needs to double shift for these gear changes. x Only shift from to or from to when there is not a heavy load on the crank or pedal. It is not possible to shift directly from the lowest gear to the highest or from the high est gear to the lowest. x If the gears no longer shift precisely after running in or after longer use contact your dealer Troubleshooting A Pinion gearbox generally runs quietly with no disturbing noises. If any noises are produced and the gears shift properly then the noises have an other cause. Troubleshooting when using a Pinion gearbox Fault Possible cause Solution With a belt drive Grinding noises Belt Alter the belt tension Belt tension varies in the Front pulley is not centred Use chainring bolts with an ex course of a revolution chainring bolts do not hold the ternal diameter of mm. front pulley central With a belt drive and with a chain drive Creaking noises Pedals saddle handlebars Check all components or have them checked by the dealer Cracking noises Drive components with loose Check the screw joints of drive screw joints components and have the dealer tighten them with a torque wrench if necessary Clicking in th and th gear Both gear levels have a free Noise is not a defect. Chargea wheel pawl models manufac ble upgrade to new version of tured before the gearbox on request Humming or buzzing Crossed chain or belt Straighten the chain or belt Pinion gearbox Cycle Troubleshooting when using a Pinion gearbox Fault Possible cause Solution Gears do not shift smoothly Worn or incorrect shift cables Only use shift cables with outer casings or end caps a maximum diameter of. mm. only use shift cable outer casings only use plastic end caps be sure to replace worn shift cables Slippage when pedalling Freewheel pawl does not en Further pedalling will engage gage correctly the gear with the next tooth With a chain drive Chain hits the chain stays Chain tension too low Have the chain tension adjust ed by the dealer Despite a functioning rear Chain tension too high freewheel pushing causes the chain or crank to revolve. Cleaning a Pinion gearbox NOTE Damage to the Pinion gearbox due to using harsh or abrasive cleaners. Risk of damage! x Only clean the Pinion gearbox with water dishwashing liquid and a soft clean brush. x Do not use strong jets of water or high pressure equipment to clean the Pinion gearbox. Cycle Pinion gearbox. Maintaining a Pinion gearbox NOTE Loss of leak tightness in the Pinion gearbox. Risk of damage! x Do not under any circumstances tighten or loosen the screws to the Pinion gearbox casing cover. Pinion gearbox Cycle Maintaining a Pinion gearbox with a chain drive x Regularly clean the chain chainring sprockets and if necessary the Pinion gearbox chain adjuster see the Pinion gearbox Cleaning a Pinion gearbox chapter. x Care for the chain by regularly applying a suitable lubricant Maintaining a Pinion gearbox with a belt drive x Regularly clean the belt as well as the front and rear pulleys see the Belt drive Cleaning the belt drive chapter. x Check the belt drive regularly for wear see the Belt drive Belt drive wear chapter. For further maintenance work x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required have maintenance work carried out by your dealer Oil change NOTE Oil leakage or spillage. Pollution! x Ensure that no oil gets into the sewer system or groundwater. x Dispose of used oil in an environmentally friendly manner ac cording to applicable national and regional regulations. The oil in the Pinion gearbox must be changed every km mi or once a year whichever comes first. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required have the oil changed by your dealer Set out a collection container Use a suitable tool to loosen the four screws on the left hand side of the gearbox cover if looking in the direction of travel Use a suitable tool to loosen the oil drainage screw on the lower edge of the gearbox Lie the cycle on its left hand side if looking in the direction of travel over the collec tion container and drain the oil into the container Stand the cycle upright or lie it on its right hand side if looking in the direction of travel. Cycle Pinion gearbox. Pour in new original Pinion gear oil Use a suitable torque wrench to tighten the oil drainage screw. Note the torque of the oil drainage screw Use a suitable torque wrench to tighten the four screws on the gearbox cover. Note the torque of the screws on the gearbox cover. Belt drive Cycle Belt drive In addition to the commonplace chain drive there are also belt drives available for cycles. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to adjust or maintain a belt drive have the drive checked and adjusted by your dealer Belt drive structure A belt drive consists of a front and a rear pul ley plus a belt which may be made from vari ous plastics depending on the belt model. To prevent the belt running off the pulleys each pulley has a side flange. On the front pulley the side flange is located on the outside. On the rear pulley the side flange is located on the inside. Belt drives are compatible with hub shifting systems and coaster brakes but not with derailleur shifting systems. Illustr. Belt drive example Rear pulley Rear side flange Belt Front pulley side flange hidden. Using the belt drive NOTE Damage to the belt due to incorrect handling. Risk of damage! x Ensure that the belt is not creased twisted bent backwards turned inside out tied or used as a strap wrench. x During fitting the belt must not be rolled up with the front pul ley chainring or levered on e.g. with a screwdriver. For belt drives the force applied by the rider is transmitted via a belt. A cycle with a belt drive can be used in all cycling friendly weather conditions. Cycle Belt drive. Checking the belt tension In order for the belt drive to function properly the belt needs to be correctly tensioned. Have the belt tension regularly checked by your dealer. Illustr. Belt tension example. Belt drive wear To minimise wear with a belt drive it is important for the belt to run parallel between the side flanges. Depending on the model of the belt drive there should be a maximum deviation of mm. measured at the centre of the belt s running surface and or a maximum angular misalignment of. between the pulleys. x If you find wear on the belt drive but you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to replace it have the belt drive or worn parts replaced by your dealer Visually inspecting the belt for wear The belt is subject to a certain degree of wear depending on distance travelled and riding conditions. x Visually inspect the belt regularly for signs of wear. If for example you find pointed torn or miss ing teeth see Illustr. Belt wear then the belt is worn. Illustr. Belt wear example Belt drive Cycle Visually inspecting the belt drive for wear Sign of wear Solution for belt drive Replace front pulley Replace rear pulley Replace belt Front pulley Side flange bent inwards x x x Side flange bent outwards x Tooth profile damaged x Rear pulley Wobbling on hub x Faulty fit x Spinning x Sheared pulley x x Sharp side flange x x Belt Creased belt x Belt tooth profile damaged x Belt cracked porous x Belt frayed x Tearing in belt x Cycle Belt drive Visually inspecting the chainring for wear If for example you notice shark teeth on the chainring see Illustr. Chainring wear the chainring is worn. Illustr. Chainring wear example. Cleaning the belt drive NOTE Damage to the belt drive due to using harsh or abrasive cleaners. Risk of damage! x Only clean the belt drive with water and a soft brush. Wheels and tyres Cycle Wheels and tyres The wheel consists of a hub sprocket cas sette sprocket or pulley and if applicable a brake disc spokes and a rim. Tyres are fitted to the wheel rim. Depending on the cycle model the tyre may contain an inner tube. The front tyre is part of the front wheel and the rear tyre is part of the rear wheel. If an inner tube is used rim tape is placed on the rim to protect the inner tube from the rim surface and the spoke nipples. If no inner tube is used tubular tyres Illustr. Cross section of a wheel and tyre example are used for racing bikes or UST univer Rim sal system tubeless tyres for MTBs. Rim tape Sidewall braking surface Wheels are exposed to considerable loads due Inner tube to the weight of the rider and luggage as well Tyre as bumps in the road. Tread x Have the wheels checked and re centred by your dealer after breaking in the cycle no longer than km mi of riding hours of operation or months which ever comes first. x Check the wheels regularly after breaking in. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required have your dealer check the wheels and centre them if necessary. Cycle Wheels and tyres. Tyres and valves DANGER Poor visibility to other road users. Risk of accident and injury! x Ensure that reflectors are clean and easily visible. CAUTION Inner tube blow out due to penetration by foreign bodies. Risk of accident and injury! x Check the tyres regularly for damage and wear. x Replace damaged or worn tyres immediately. x Have damaged or worn tyres replaced by your dealer if you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required. NOTE Damage due to fitting a tyre that differs from the original size. Risk of damage! x Contact your dealer if you have any questions about tyre size. Wheels and tyres Cycle The tyres allow the cycle to grip the road transmit the drive and brake forces to the road surface and provide cushioning when the road is uneven. Various types of tyre may be fitted depending on how the cycle is used. Tyre size is indicated on the sidewall of each tyre. A variety of specifications may be re corded here such as The ETRTO size which is given in millimetres. If is indicated on the tyre then the inflated tyre is mm wide with an internal diameter of mm. ETRTO stands for the European Tyre and Rim Technical Organisation. The size in inches. If. is indicated on the tyre then the inflated tyre is. wide with an internal diameter of. With the exception of tubular tyres and UST tyres the tyre and rim alone are not airtight. An inner tube is used to keep air inside the tyre and this is filled via a valve Valve types Cycles may be equipped with one of the following valve types see Illustr. Valve types Presta valve PV secured with a tappet in the valve rim hole. mm Dunlop valve DV secured with a union nut rim hole. mm Schrader valve SV secured with a tap pet in the valve rim hole. mm All three valve types have a valve cap to pre vent the valve getting dirty. PV DV SV Illustr. Valve types example Knurled screw Valve tappet Lower knurled nut Upper knurled nut Cycle Wheels and tyres Tyre pressure WARNING Inner tube blow out or tyre jumping off the rim due to excessively high tyre pressure. Risk of accident and injury! x Observe the tyre pressure. x Use a pump with a pressure display when inflating the tyres. NOTE Damage to the inner tube due to insufficient tyre pressure. Risk of damage! x Do not ride over sharp edges if the tyre pressure is too low. x Observe the tyre pressure. x Use a pump with a pressure display when inflating the tyres. Tyre pressure is indicated on the sidewall of the tyre. The tyre pressure is given in bar or psi pounds per square inch. See the Tyre pressure conversion table. The lower tyre pressure limit is suitable for light riders and uneven ground and provides more comfortable suspension with greater rolling resistance. The upper tyre pressure limit is suitable for heavy riders and even ground and provides low rolling resistance with less comfortable suspension. If there is an indication of the tyre inflation pressure on the rim in addition to the tyre side wall the lower of the two values determines the maximum tyre inflation pressure. x Always ride with the prescribed tyre pressure. x Check the tyre pressure regularly. x Inflate the tyres with air to at least the lower tyre pressure limit and no more than the upper limit. x Use a pump with a pressure display when inflating the tyres. Wheels and tyres Cycle Tyre pressure conversion psi bar psi bar Rims and spokes Spokes with uniform tension are required in order for a wheel to run true. The tension of individual spokes may be altered by riding too quickly over obstacles such as kerbs or if a spoke nipple comes loose. Wheel trueness and rim stability are reduced when individual spokes are damaged or no longer taut. WARNING Risk of falling due to locked up rim brakes or wobbly wheels in the event of rim run out. Risk of accident and injury! x Only use true running wheels. x Have loose spokes tensioned by your dealer. x Have your dealer centre untrue wheels immediately. Cycle Wheels and tyres. Fitting and removing the front rear wheel WARNING Risk of falling due to wheels loosening if quick release axles are not fastened. Risk of accident and injury! x Before every ride check that the wheels are securely inserted in the fork ends. WARNING Wheel drop out due to loosened fastenings. Risk of accident and injury! x Check the wheel fastenings before every ride. CAUTION Risk of burning due to hot brake discs! Risk of injury! x Always let the brake discs cool down before opening the quick release or wheel fastening. NOTE Damage to the brake due to removing the front or rear wheel. Risk of damage! x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required have the front or rear wheel removed and fitted by your dealer only. Wheels and tyres Cycle Depending on the cycle model the wheels are fastened in the fork ends with quick re lease axles thru axles or conventional axles with hub axle nuts. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to adjust quick release axles contact your dealer. The cycle may be equipped with conventional A B thru axles lever type thru axles or quick re lease axles. The axles can be replaced with anti theft axles. Axles pass through the wheels and are fas tened between the fork ends of the cycle. The fork ends may be open or closed depending on the front fork model. These have different fitting and removal methods. There is a large variety of fastening systems on the market. Have your dealer demonstrate and explain how the fastening systems on your cycle function. Thru axles and quick release ax les can be fitted with anti theft Illustr. Open A and closed B fork ends example devices or replaced with axles that feature integrated anti theft protection. Wheels may be secured in var ious ways depending on the model Some models cannot be unfastened while the cycle is in an upright position. With some models a dedicated tool is required to loosen the hub axle nut or quick re lease adjusting nut. x Ask your dealer about anti theft thru axle and quick release axle options. x Refer to the information enclosed by the manufacturer about fitting the axles. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to adjust or fasten axles contact your dealer. Cycle Wheels and tyres Front rear wheels with quick release axles Fitting. Push the quick release axle through the wheel hub and give the quick release adjusting nut one or two turns to screw it on to the quick release axle Insert the front rear wheel and quick release into the fork ends. x If applicable follow the specifica tions regarding the front rear wheel running direction. This specification generally relates to the tyre tread and can be found on the sidewall of the tyre Tilt back the quick release lever until it stops see Illustr. Wheel with quick re Illustr. Wheel with a quick release axle example lease axle. Position the quick release Quick release adjusting nut lever so that it cannot be unintentionally Quick release axle lever opened e.g. by putting it up. x If the quick release axle or the front rear wheel is not firmly in place or if you can pull the quick release without any effort readjust the tension see the Basic adjustments Quick releases chapter Removal. To unfasten the quick release axle pull the axle lever outwards Rotate the cotter pin nut of the quick release anticlockwise away from the quick re lease axle until you can remove the front rear wheel from the fork ends. Wheels and tyres Cycle Front rear wheels with thru axles Fitting. Align the front rear wheel between the fork ends so that the fork ends and wheel hub form a straight line. x If applicable follow the specifications regarding the front rear wheel running direction. This specification generally relates to the tyre tread and can be found on the sidewall of the tyre Push the thru axle through the fork ends and the wheel hub Fasten the thru axle. Depending on the model of the thru axle this may be done by tightening with or without a tool by using a quick release lever or a combina Illustr. Wheel with a thru axle example tion of both methods. Observe the user Quick release adjusting nut manual for the thru axle if applicable. Thru axle Removal. Loosen or open the thru axle. Depending on the model of the thru axle this may be done by loosening with or without a tool by using a quick release lever or a combina tion of both methods. Observe the user manual for the thru axle if applicable Secure the front rear wheel Pull the thru axle out of the fork ends and wheel hub Remove the front rear wheel. Cycle Wheels and tyres Front rear wheels with screw joints Fitting. Turn the quick release adjusting nut off the axle and remove the attached hub axle washer from the axle Insert the front rear wheel into the fork ends. x If applicable follow the specifica tions regarding the front rear wheel running direction. This specification generally relates to the tyre tread and can be found on the sidewall of the tyre Push the hub axle washers onto the axle Align the rear wheel so it is flush with the frame. Illustr. Wheel with screw axle example Quick release adjusting nut. Tighten the quick release adjusting nut observing applicable torques see Illustr. Hub axle washer Wheel with screw axle. x If the front rear wheel is not securely fastened do not continue to ride the cycle. Have the axle checked or adjusted by your dealer Removal. Turn the quick release adjusting nut off the axle and remove the attached hub axle washer from the axle Remove the front rear wheel from the fork ends Carbon wheels Carbon wheels made from carbon fibre reinforced plastic are notable for their high rigidi ty and low weight. Rims with higher sidewalls also have particular aerodynamic qualities. If your cycle is equipped with carbon wheels refer to the specifications on the frame or ask your dealer about the maximum gross weight limit for the cycle. Wheels and tyres Cycle WARNING Reduced brake action with rim brakes due to moisture on carbon rims. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not use carbon wheels with rim brakes in wet conditions. NOTE Rim deformation or tyre blow out due to the heat generated while braking with rim brakes e.g. when riding downhill in the mountains. Risk of damage! x Use both brakes for longer periods of braking. x Release the brakes at regular intervals for a while so that the brake pads and rims can cool down. x Only use brake pads that are suitable for carbon wheels. x Keep off the road while you practice braking with carbon wheels. x Note that brake pads for carbon wheels wear more quickly than other brake pads. x Note that brake pads for carbon wheels are heat sensitive and not suitable for pro longed braking e.g. on long descents. Ensure you have regular cooling periods with no brake operation. Cycle Telescopic seat post Telescopic seat post This chapter contains information about the basics of telescopic seat posts as well as their adjustment and operation Basics WARNING Inattention on the road. Risk of accident and injury! x Familiarise yourself with the features of the telescopic seat post before your first ride. x Only operate the telescopic seat post if it will not take any of your attention off the road and terrain. x Stop if you cannot operate the telescopic seat post safely. WARNING Loss of eyesight on contact with hydraulic fluid. Risk of accident and injury! x If hydraulic fluid gets in your eye rinse it out with clean water straight away. x Contact a doctor immediately after contact with hydraulic fluid. Depending on the cycle model there may be a telescopic seat post installed. A telescopic seat post allows the saddle height to be adjusted by operating a lever underneath the saddle or a remote control on the handlebars both at a standstill and while riding. Height adjustments may be stepped or stepless depending on the design of the telescopic seat post. When the handlebar remote control is operated this is transmitted to the telescopic seat post either mechanically hydraulically or via a wireless signal. x Refer to information from the telescopic seat post manufacturer. x If you lack the necessary expertise or the tools required to adjust maintain or operate the telescopic seat post contact your dealer. Telescopic seat post Cycle. Operation Depending on the design of the telescopic seat post the remote control may be equipped with one or two levers. Where there are two levers each lever is generally associated with a point between the upper and lower saddle positions. x To lower the saddle place weight on it and operate the lever. Once the saddle has reached the desired position release the lever. x To raise the saddle take the weight off it and operate the lever. Once the saddle has reached the desired position release the lever. Cycle Telescopic seat post. Adjustments Adjusting the cable tension If your cycle has a mechanical remote control The cable tension for the telescopic seat post remote control must be adjusted in the event of a malfunction for example if the saddle height cannot be adjusted or if the saddle height changes despite not operating the lever or button. x Refer to information from the manufacturer about adjusting the cable tension Adjusting the extension speed The extension speed for the telescopic seat post is generally adjusted using the speed adjustment screw on the remote control. The extension speed is reduced or increased de pending on the turning direction. x Refer to information from the manufacturer about adjusting the extension speed Telescopic seat post remote control position The position of the telescopic seat post remote control must be custom adjusted so that the lever or button can be operated easily and safely see Illustr. Remote control posi tion. x If you lack the necessary expertise or the tools required have your dealer adjust the remote control position to suit your needs Loosen the remote control screw by turning it anticlockwise Position the remote control so that the lever or button is easily accessible while riding Tighten the remote control screw by turning it clockwise. Illustr. Remote control position example Adjusting a pneumatic telescopic seat post Air pressure influences factors such as the extension speed and the force that must be exerted in order to lower the telescopic seat post. The air pressure inside the pneumatic telescopic seat post is pre set by the manufacturer and only needs to be adjusted in the event of a malfunction. x Have the telescopic seat post adjusted by your dealer. Telescopic seat post Cycle Bleeding a hydraulic telescopic seat post A hydraulic telescopic seat post must be bled once it stops fully extending or the saddle starts to sink after the lever is released. x Have the telescopic seat post bled by your dealer. Cycle Suspension Suspension This chapter contains information about the basics of suspension elements as well as their adjustment and operation. If suspension elements are too soft they will no longer provide cushioning against bumps and the suspension will bottom out. Suspension elements must be adjusted or tuned to prevent bottoming out. If a suspension element frequently bottoms out it and often the frame too will become permanently damaged. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required for the adjustments have suspension elements adjusted by your dealer Suspension seat post Depending on the cycle model the cycle may be equipped with a suspension seat post. Suspension seat posts increase comfort and safety when riding over uneven ground. The suspension seat post must be adjusted to the rider s body weight. This requires exper tise and it may be necessary to replace the springs. Illustr. Suspension seat post example Suspension inside. Suspension fork and rear suspension Basics Depending on the cycle model the cycle may be equipped with a suspension fork and or rear suspension. Suspension Cycle Suspension forks absorb impacts to the front wheel and increase comfort as well as safety when riding over uneven ground. The suspen sion fork must be tuned to the intended use and the rider s weight. Illustr. Suspension fork example Suspension fork stanchion leg Suspension fork lower leg Rear suspension which is installed centrally between the front and rear frame absorbs impacts to the rear wheel and increases com fort as well as safety when riding over uneven ground. The rear suspension must be tuned to the intended use and the rider s weight. psi kPa Bar Rear suspension increases comfort when rid ing over uneven ground. x If your cycle is equipped with adjustable rear suspension refer to the adjustment Illustr. Rear suspension example information enclosed by the manufacturer. Spring stiffness adjustment Damping adjustmentL Cycle Suspension Operation NOTE Increased wear due to lockout use. Risk of damage! x Only use the lockout on even roads. x Only use the lockout if it improves handling. x Refer to the information enclosed by the manufacturer about operating suspension forks. x To lock the suspension fork turn the knob anticlockwise until it stops. x To unlock the suspension fork turn the knob clockwise until it stops see Illustr. Sus pension fork lockout control. x Check whether the rear suspension can be locked. If necessary ask a professional how the rear suspension is locked and unlocked. Illustr. Suspension fork lockout control top view example. On models with a mechanical suspension element x To increase the spring preload and so adjust the Sag to a lower level turn the knob on the suspension fork or rear suspension in the direction see Illustr. Suspension fork knob. x To reduce the spring preload and so adjust the sag to a higher level turn the knob on the suspension fork in the direction. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to optimally adjust the sag have the suspension adjusted by your dealer. Suspension Cycle Illustr. Suspension fork knob top view example. On models with air chambers x To adjust the spring preload increase or reduce the air pressure in the suspension fork. x To increase or reduce the suspension fork air pressure you will need a dedicated damper pump. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required for the adjustments have suspension elements adjusted by your dealer. Cycle Suspension Adjustments The following adjustment options are generally available Compression and rebound Sag compression under body weight Lockout suspension locking feature Compression and rebound Adjusting the compression and rebound influences the damping or response behaviour of the suspension fork or rear suspension. The ratio between compression and rebound is crucial. Depending on the cycle model the suspension may only be equipped for rebound adjustment. The ratio between compression and rebound is determined by the condition of the road. A correctly adjusted ratio ensures optimum contact between the wheels and the ground. x Have the compression and rebound adjusted by your dealer Sag Sag is the amount of compression caused by the rider s body weight. Depending on the model of the suspension fork or rear suspension and depending on the intended use the Sag is adjusted to a value between and of the total suspension travel. Sag is influenced by the spring preload. When the sag is optimally adjusted the suspen sion will compress by to of its travel when the rider sits on the cycle. The sag is determined by the spring preload or by the adjustable air pressure in the sus pension fork or damper. The spring preload or the air pressure therefore determine the stiffness of the suspension and whether the chassis is hard or soft. x Have your dealer adjust the suspension fork or rear suspension to your body weight and riding style. Have your dealer adjust the suspension fork damper sag to suit your body weight and riding style. This is usually dealt with through air pressure or by replacing suspension elements. Suspension Cycle Lockout The lockout feature locks the suspension fork. This can reduce bob or squat in the front fork e.g. where the suspension sinks when pedalling hard. Depending on the cycle model the rear suspension may also be equipped with a lockout feature. Bumps cause the suspension fork to compress slightly even when locked. This is for technical reasons and protects the front fork against damage. Cycle Cleaning Cleaning CAUTION Pinching and crushing of body parts by moving components. Risk of injury! x Be careful when handling moving parts so as not to get your fingers caught. x Wear protective gloves if necessary. CAUTION If you clean the pedals of the vehicle with a high pressure device flying parts can cause injury. Risk of injury! x Never clean vehicle pedals with a hard water jet or high pres sure equipment. NOTE Use of incorrect cleaners. Risk of damage! x Do not use abrasive cleaning products. x Do not use sharp angular or metallic cleaning tools. x Do not use strong jets of water or high pressure equipment to clean the cycle. Cleaning Cycle What you need for cleaning and maintenance Clean cloths Mild lukewarm soapy water A soft brush or sponge Cleaners and preservers Universal oil x If necessary consult your dealer about suitable cleaners and preservers. x Clean the cycle regularly even if it is only slightly dirty. x Wipe all surfaces and components with a damp sponge. x Use mild soapy water to moisten the sponge. x Wipe all surfaces and components dry after cleaning. x Preserve all paintwork and metallic surfaces on the frame at least every six months. x Do not preserve the rims if you have rim brakes or the brake discs if you have disc brakes. x Refer to and follow the notes in the information enclosed by the manufacturer about cleaning individual components. Cycle Cleaning. Brakes CAUTION Risk of burning due to hot brake discs. Risk of injury! x Wait until the brake discs have cooled down before touching them. CAUTION Diminished brake action due to soap residue oil grease or care products on the rims or brake blocks or on the brake discs or brake pads. Risk of accident and injury! x Avoid grease and oil contact with the rim brake disc brake blocks or brake pads. x Do not use the cycle if grease or oil has touched the rim brake disc brake blocks or brake pads. Have oil contaminated compo nents professionally cleaned and if necessary replaced by your dealer. x Remove soap and care product residue after cleaning. x Check the brakes for soap and care product residue after clean ing. x Remove dirt from the brake components brake calliper and rim immediately with a slightly damp cloth and if necessary a little brake cleaner. Cleaning Cycle. Suspension If the cycle is equipped with a suspension fork a suspension seat post or rear suspension. Remove dirt from the sliding surfaces and the adjacent seals immediately with a clean cloth lightly oiled if necessary see Illustr. Suspension fork sliding surface and Illus tr. Suspension seat post sliding surface Oil the sliding surface with a little universal oil after cleaning Compress and extend the suspension five times. Then remove excess oil with a clean cloth. Illustr. Suspension fork sliding surface example Illustr. Suspension seat post sliding surface ex ample Sliding surface Sliding surface. Gear shifting system NOTE Incorrectly chosen grease oil and care products can damage the components. Risk of damage! x Consult your dealer about the use of greases oils and care products particularly with derailleur shifting systems. x Do not use water for cleaning and do not use chemical brake cleaners or thinners. x Do not use gun oil or rust removal spray. Cycle Cleaning x Clean the controls for the gear shifting system with a damp cloth. x Clean the moving components in derail leur shifting systems with a damp cloth or a soft brush provided they are easily accessible see Illustr. Moving compo nents of a derailleur shifting system. x Oil the moving components in derailleur shifting systems with a little universal oil after cleaning provided they are easily accessible. Illustr. Moving components of a derailleur shifting x Then remove excess oil with a clean system example cloth. Rear derailleur Jockey wheels Chain adjuster. Chain x If the cycle is equipped with an all round chain guard have your dealer explain how to remove and fit the guard or have them remove and fit it for you. Remove dirt from the bike chain with a clean cloth lightly oiled if necessary. x Remove dirt from the sprockets and chainrings with a small soft brush. x Oil the chain with a little universal oil at regular intervals after cleaning and after riding in the rain. x Contact your dealer regarding stubborn dirt. Maintenance Cycle Maintenance WARNING Brake failure or material breakage due to incorrect maintenance and inspection. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not carry out any maintenance on the cycle if you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required. x Have the cycle regularly checked by your dealer as well. CAUTION Risk of burning due to hot brake discs. Risk of injury! x Let the brake discs cool down before maintenance. CAUTION Material fatigue and material breakage due to tightening screw joints incorrectly. Risk of accident and injury! x Loose screw joints must be properly tightened with a torque wrench. x Loose screw joints must be tightened using the correct torques. x Have your dealer tighten loose screw joints. Cycle Maintenance CAUTION Alterations to the cycle and incorrectly chosen spare parts can cause the cycle to malfunction. Risk of accident and injury! x Consult your dealer about suitable spare parts. x Only use original spare parts. NOTE Dripping oil or grease. Pollution! x Ensure that there is no dripping oil or grease. x Clear up spilled oil or grease immediately with a cloth. x Dispose of spilled oil or grease residue in an environmentally friendly manner according to applicable national and regional regulations. NOTE Oil or grease on the cycle can transfer onto clothes. Risk of damage! x Remove excess oil or grease with a cloth after cycle care. x Keep your clothes away from oil and grease. Consult your dealer about suitable spare parts before fitting. Maintenance Cycle What you need for maintenance Clean cloths Preservers Universal oil x If necessary consult your dealer about suitable lubricants and preservers. x Have all maintenance and repairs documented by your dealer. x If you find damage do not use the cycle and have it checked or repaired by your dealer. x Have loose screw joints checked by your dealer if you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required Inspection intervals x Have your dealer inspect the cycle at the following intervals Inspection intervals Inspection Distance travelled Hours of operation Duration of use st Inspection after km after hours of op after months mi or eration or nd Inspection after km after hours of after one year mi or operation or Each subsequent after a further after a further after a further year inspection km mi hours of opera or tion or whichever is the earliest x If you use the cycle in difficult conditions or ride more than km mi per year shorten the inspection intervals and have an inspection carried out by your dealer every months. Examples of difficult conditions include Frequent use on demanding terrain Operation in poor weather conditions e.g. in winter particular risk of corrosion due to salt on the roads in mud or slush increased wear due to excessive dirt in moving parts Operation with constant heavy loads Cycle Maintenance x Follow the inspection interval specifications in the manuals enclosed with the various cycle components. x Carry out the following maintenance work once a month or after a fall. Your cycle has a variety of parts that require particular attention especially with regard to their exposure to dirt dust or moisture or simply because of their relevance to safety. It is therefore in your own interest to observe the inspection intervals. A possible cause of increased wear can be sand and dirt in the chain cassette and chain rings Screw joints x Check the vehicle regularly for loose screw connections according to the maintenance schedule and tighten loose screws with a torque wrench. x Do not ride the cycle if you find loose screw joints. x Have loose screw joints checked by your dealer if you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required Frame and rigid fork x Check the frame and rigid fork for cracks deformation or discolouration. x If the frame or the rigid fork is cracked deformed or discoloured contact your dealer immediately. x Do not use the cycle if you find any cracks deformation or discolouration Suspension fork x Check the suspension fork for cracks deformation or discolouration. x If the suspension fork is cracked deformed or discoloured contact your dealer immediately. x Compress and extend the suspension fork. x If you hear unusual noises or the suspension fork gives way without any resist ance have it checked by your dealer. x Clean and oil the suspension fork see the Cleaning chapter. Maintenance Cycle. Luggage carrier and mudguards. Hold the cycle firmly by the frame Pull the luggage carrier back and forth to check that all the screw joints are tight and do not move Pull the mudguards back and forth to check that they are firmly in place. x Tighten loose screw joints in a clockwise direction. Ensure that the torques are correct. x Have loose screw joints checked by your dealer if you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required Saddle x Check whether you can twist the saddle. x If you can twist the saddle tighten the seat post clamp. Observe applicable tor ques. x Have the seat post clamp checked by your dealer if you lack the necessary exper tise and the tools required. x If there is a quick release installed on the seat post clamp adjust the quick release see the Basic adjustments Quick releases chapter. x Check whether you can move the saddle horizontally in the direction of travel or in the opposite direction. x If you can move the saddle adjust the saddle clamp see the Basic adjustments Saddle Adjusting the reach chapter Handlebars and handlebar stems Vehicles with a special type of stem are accompanied by a separate descrip tion of the stem which must be observed. x Check whether the handlebars are aligned perpendicularly to the front wheel see Illustr. Correct handlebar align ment. x Readjust the handlebars if they are not perpendicular to the front wheel see the Basic adjustments Illustr. Correct handlebar alignment example Handlebars and handlebar stems Aligning the handlebars chapter. Cycle Maintenance x Fix the front wheel in place by clamping it between your legs to prevent it twisting sideways and check whether the handlebars can be turned relative to the front wheel. Ensure that you do not touch hot brake discs. x If you can turn the handlebars have them adjusted by your dealer. x Check whether the handlebar stem can be moved up and down. x If you detect play in the head tube or handlebar stem when pulling the handlebar stem up and down have the bearing play or the handlebar stem adjusted by your dealer. x Check the handlebars and handlebar stem for cracks deformation or discolouration. x If the handlebars or handlebar stem are cracked deformed or discoloured stop using the cycle and contact your dealer Adjusting the headset CAUTION Unexpected cycle behaviour due to incorrect adjustment. Risk of accident and injury! x Observe applicable torques. x Observe the minimum insertion depth for the handlebar stem. CAUTION Risk of burning due to hot brake discs. Risk of injury! x Let the brake discs cool down before maintenance. In a traditional internal clamping mechanism for the handlebar stem the bearing race is secured with a washer and lock nut. In a non threaded external clamping mechanism the bearing race is secured by the han dlebar stem itself. There is very little play when adjusting the headset. The bearings can easily become blocked or damaged. Maintenance Cycle Special tools are required to adjust headsets. x Refer to and follow information from the headset manufacturer. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to adjust the headset con tact your dealer. Excessive tightness can damage the headset and block the steering move ment which negatively affects handling characteristics Conventional handlebar stem with an internal clamping mechanism If there is too much play in the headset follow the steps described below. Loosen the upper lock nut Turn the bearing race underneath slightly clockwise Tighten the upper lock nut. Observe the permitted torque Check the headset play. x If there is still play in the headset repeat steps to. Illustr. Internal clamping mechanism example. Check whether the handlebar stem is Lock nut secure by fixing the front wheel in place Bearing race between your legs and attempting to turn the handlebars relative to it Check the handlebar position after adjusting the headset see the Basic adjustments Handlebars and handlebar stems Aligning the handlebars chapter Handlebar stem with an external clamping mechanism. Unfasten the clamp bolts on the side of the handlebar stem Remove the cap from the head of the inner adjustment screw if necessary Tighten the inner adjustment screw further by turning it a fraction clockwise if there is a lot of play in the headset Align the handlebar stem so that the handlebars are perpendicular to the front wheel Re tighten the clamp bolts with the permitted torque. Cycle Maintenance. Check the headset play by placing two fingers around the upper head bearing race pulling the front brake and pushing the cycle forwards and backwards. The fork stem must not move in the head tube as you do this. x If there is still play in the headset repeat steps to Check how freely the handlebars move. If the steering is heavier than before then Illustr. External clamping mechanism example the headset adjustment screw is too tight. Inner adjustment screw Start again at step and turn the inner Clamp bolts adjustment screw a fraction anticlockwise Check whether the handlebar stem is secure by fixing the front wheel in place be tween your legs and attempting to turn the handlebars relative to it Check the handlebar position after adjusting the headset see the Basic adjust ments Handlebars and handlebar stems Aligning the handlebars chapter Wheels x Check whether the front or rear wheel can be moved sideways and whether the wheel nuts move. x If the wheel nuts move have the screw joints checked by your dealer. x If the quick release axle moves adjust the axle see the Wheels and tyres Fit ting and removing the front rear wheel chapter. x If the front or rear wheel moves sideways have the wheel repaired by your dealer. x Check whether there is equal distance on both sides between the front wheel and the front fork or between the rear wheel and the frame. x If the distances are not equal have the front or rear wheel checked by your dealer. x Lift the cycle and turn the front or rear wheel. Check whether the front or rear wheel swings sideways or outwards. x If the front or rear wheel swings sideways or outwards have the wheel checked by your dealer. Maintenance Cycle Rims and spokes x Check the front and rear rims at regular intervals for cracks deformation or colour changes. x Check the rim also under the inner tube and under the rim tape. x Do not use the cycle if a rim is cracked deformed or discoloured. x Have the rim checked by your dealer. Especially with hollow chamber rims and rims made of composite materials and aluminium damage can occur that is not visible. x Squeeze the spokes together gently with your thumb and fingers checking whether the tension is the same for all spokes. x If the tension varies or spokes are loose have the spokes tensioned by your dealer Rim wear indicator with rim brakes The wear indicator is a groove in the surface of the rim where the brake pads are pressed. The wear limit is reached when the surface groove can no longer be felt i.e. has been worn away through braking. x Check whether there is a wear indicator on the rims of your cycle see Illustr. Rim with a wear indicator If your cycle rims have an indentation check whether the wear limit has been reached Stroke your fingernail vertically across Illustr. Rim with a wear indicator example the indentation. Indentation x If you cannot feel the indentation do not use the cycle. x Have the rims replaced by your dealer. Cycle Maintenance Tyres. Check whether the tyre pressure is correct see the Wheels and tyres Tyres and valves Tyre pressure chapter Check the tyres for cracks and damage from foreign bodies Check whether you can clearly feel the tyre tread. x If a tyre is cracked or damaged or the tread depth is too low have the tyre re placed by your dealer. The following sentence is only applicable for Europe x On an S pedelec ensure that the profile depth does not fall below mm Check whether the valves are firmly in place and tighten the lower knurled nut if nec essary by turning it clockwise Check whether the valves have a protective cap. x Replace missing protective caps so that dust and dirt cannot get into the valves Flat tyre A flat tyre is the most frequent cause of cycling breakdowns. A flat tyre need not end your ride if you carry the necessary tools and a replacement inner tube or repair kit. For detailed instructions on repairing a flat tyre see the Maintenance Removing the wheel chapter Removing the wheel Before you remove a wheel read the Wheels and tyres chapter. If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required contact your dealer. x On cycles with a derailleur shifting system shift to the smallest sprocket in the cas sette at the back. This will position the rear derailleur on the outside and prevent it hindering the removal process. x To facilitate wheel removal fix the cycle in place using a suitable work stand if neces sary. Maintenance Cycle Preparing the brakes CAUTION Risk of burning due to hot brake discs. Risk of accident and injury! x Let the brake discs cool down before removing the wheel. NOTE Locked up brake pads due to operating the disc brake incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Never pull the brake lever when a wheel is removed. Always use the transport locks when you remove a wheel. Before the wheels can be removed the brakes must be prepared. Refer to the information enclosed by the brake and shifting system manu facturers. Cycle Maintenance Preparing mechanical rim brakes. Detach the brake cable from the brake arm Reach around the wheel with one hand and press the brake pads or brake arms to gether. This position allows you to easily detach the cable nipple normally cylindrical or V brake outer cable. Illustr. Rim brake with a cable nipple Illustr. Rim brake with cable guide example example Cable nipple Cable guide Brake arm Brake arm Tyre Tyre Rim Rim Brake block holders Brake block holders Spring preload adjustment screw Spring preload adjustment screw Maintenance Cycle Preparing hydraulic rim brakes x To open the quick release lever for hydraulic rim brakes flip the quick re lease lever down see Illustr. Preparing hydraulic rim brakes. x Pull the brake from the retaining boss. Illustr. Preparing hydraulic rim brakes example Preparing the coaster brake x With coaster brakes loosen the screw joint between the reaction arm and the chain stays. x Remove the shift cables or shift box before removing the wheel. Refer to information from the manufacturer about fitting and removal. Illustr. Coaster brake example Chain stays Fastening clamp on the frame Screw joint Coaster brake reaction arm Cycle Maintenance Preparing the brakes on racing bikes Before the wheels can be removed the brakes must be prepared. x Open the quick release lever on the rim brake. Illustr. Preparing the brakes on racing bikes example Rim brake quick release lever Removing the front wheel x Open the quick release lever see the Wheels and tyres Fitting and removing the front rear wheel chapter or loosen the cap nuts. If the front wheel cannot be pulled out yet this is due to the drop out locks. These are re taining collars in the fork end. x Unfasten the cotter pin nut on the quick release or unscrew the cap nut further from the axle. x Slip the front wheel from the drop out locks. Maintenance Cycle Removing the rear wheel x On cycles with a derailleur shifting system shift to the smallest rear sprocket. x To facilitate rear wheel removal with derailleur shifting systems pull the rear derailleur backwards slightly by hand see Illustr. Pulling back the rear derailleur. x Lift the cycle up a little and give the rear wheel a light tap so that it drops down and out. Illustr. Pulling back the rear derailleur example If the cycle is equipped with a rear derailleur that features a chain adjuster lock x Use the lever on the top of the rear derailleur to deactivate the derailleur before re moving the rear wheel. If the cycle has thru axles refer to the Wheels and tyres Fitting and removing the front rear wheel chapter. x Have your dealer explain how to use thru axles if necessary. If the cycle has a combination of hub and derailleur shifting systems then the shift box must be removed first before removing the rear wheel as with a derailleur shifting sys tem. x Refer to information from the manufacturer about fitting and removing the shift box. x Have the shift box fitted and removed by your dealer if you lack the necessary exper tise and the tools required. Cycle Maintenance Removing clincher or folding tyres NOTE Damage to the inner tube due to a ruined or worn tyre. Risk of damage! x If the fabric of a tyre has been ruined by a foreign body or wear replace the tyre. To remove clincher or folding tyres follow these steps. Unscrew the valve cap and lower knurled nut from the valve see Illustr. Removing clincher or folding tyres A Completely deflate the inner tube Press the tyre from the rim sidewall towards the centre of the rim around the entire circumference of the tyre Push one tyre lever between the tyre and rim approximately cm. to the right of the valve Lever the sidewall of the tyre over the edge of the rim and hold the tyre lever firmly in this position Push the second tyre lever between the tyre and rim approximately cm. to the left of the valve see Illustr. Removing clincher or folding tyres B Lever the sidewall of the tyre over the edge of the rim with the second tyre lever Push the second tyre lever along the rim to completely release the rim sidewall. If you are repairing the tyre while out riding. Pull the inner tube out of the clincher or folding tyre see Illustr. Removing clincher or folding tyres C without fully removing it from the tyre Inflate the inner tube and try to locate the leak by sound and feel Check the tyre for foreign bodies and remove them Repair the inner tube using a repair kit. Refer to the tyre repair information enclosed by the manufacturer. Maintenance Cycle If you are repairing the tyre at home. Pull the inner tube out of the clincher or folding tyre see Illustr. Removing clincher or folding tyres C Inflate the inner tube and immerse it in water to locate the leak by seeing where bubbles escape Repair the inner tube using a repair kit. Refer to the tyre repair information enclosed by the manufacturer. x If the inner tube is beyond repair insert a new one Check the tyre for foreign bodies and remove them. x Replace the tyre if it is too badly damaged. A B C Illustr. Removing clincher or folding tyres example Checking the rim tape NOTE Damage to the inner tube due to damaged or poorly fitting rim tape. Risk of damage! x Align the rim tape so that all the spoke nipples and spoke holes are covered. x Replace the rim tape if its fabric is torn or damaged. Cycle Maintenance On rims with a double base known as hollow section rims the rim tape must span the en tire base without being so wide that it protrudes at the edges of the rim. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required have your dealer check the rim tape and replace it if necessary. x When you have removed the tyre check the rim tape and replace it if necessary to prevent damage to the inner tube Fitting clincher or folding tyres When fitting a tyre ensure that no foreign bodies such as dirt or sand get inside and that you do not damage the inner tube. To fit clincher or folding tyres follow these steps. Place one edge of the rim inside the tyre Press the sidewall of the tyre fully over the edge of the rim with your thumbs Insert the inner tube valve vertically through the valve hole in the rim so that it points directly at the wheel axle Inflate the inner tube slightly so that it becomes round and place it completely inside the tyre Use your thumbs to press the tyre over the edge of the rim as far as it will go Push the inner tube inside the tyre with your index fingers so as not to trap the inner tube between the tyre and the rim Work your way evenly around the circumference of the tyre from both sides Finish by giving the tyre a firm tug downwards to move the previously fitted section down into the deep rim base Check the position of the inner tube and press the tyre over the edge of the rim see Illustr. Fitting clincher or folding tyres A. x If this is not possible use the blunt end of the tyre lever to move the tyre over the edge of the rim see Illustr. Fitting clincher or folding tyres B Press the valve into the inside of the tyre Realign the valve if necessary. x If this is not possible detach part of the tyre sidewall and realign the inner tube Move the semi inflated tyre back and forth several times in a sideways direction to check that the inner tube is positioned in the tyre correctly with no pinching Inflate the inner tube to the desired tyre pressure. The maximum tyre pressure is indicated on the sidewall of the tyre. Maintenance Cycle. Check whether the tyre is correctly positioned using the witness line alongside the rim sidewall. The witness line must be an even distance from the edge of the rim all round the tyre see Illustr. Fitting clincher or folding tyres C. A B C Illustr. Fitting clincher or folding tyres example Fitting UST tyres No separate inner tube is needed with UST universal system tubeless tyres. The tyre and rim are connected in such a way that no air can escape. UST tyres may only be used with a UST rim or a UST wheel. Have UST tyres fitted by your dealer only. Do not fit UST tyres yourself unless you have the necessary expertise. x Only fit UST tyres by hand. Do not use a tyre lever. x Remove dirt and lubricant before fitting. UST tyres must be free of dust and grease inside and around the tyre bead. x Moisten the tyre bead with soap or tyre fitting lubricant before fitting so as not to damage the UST tyre Using your hands press the UST tyre onto the rim from outside First lift one tyre bead completely over one rim flange then the other Centre the UST tyre in the rim well Centre the valve between the tyre sidewalls. Inflate the UST tyre to the maximum tyre pressure Check whether the UST tyre is correctly positioned using the fine witness line which must be an even distance from the rim all around the UST tyre. x Use the valve to reduce the tyre pressure if necessary. Cycle Maintenance Fitting the wheel WARNING Brake failure due to fitting the brake incorrectly. Risk of accident and injury! x With rim brakes reattach the brake cable immediately. x With hydraulic rim brakes reattach the brake body immediately and close the quick release lever. x Ensure that the brake body touches the rim and not the tyre or the spokes. To fit the wheels reverse the sequence of steps for removing the wheels. x With disc brakes check that the brake pads are precisely positioned in the mounts on the brake calliper before fitting the wheel. x Ensure that you push the brake disc between the brake pads Fitting the front wheel. Thread the front wheel through the drop out locks Fasten the nut on the quick release Close the quick release lever Check whether the front wheel turns smoothly. x If the front wheel does not turn smoothly centre the wheel in the suspension fork Fitting the rear wheel. Pull the rear derailleur backwards by hand see the Maintenance Removing the wheel Removing the rear wheel chapter Place the chain on the smallest chainring and press the chain down Thread the rear wheel through the drop out locks if necessary Push the rear wheel up into the drop out locks Fasten the nut on the quick release Close the quick release lever Check whether the rear wheel turns smoothly. Maintenance Cycle x If the rear wheel does not turn smoothly centre the wheel between the chain stays. If the cycle is equipped with a rear derailleur that features a chain adjuster lock x Use the lever on the top of the rear derailleur to activate the derailleur once you have fitted the rear wheel After fitting the wheels WARNING Brake failure due to fitting the brake incorrectly. Risk of accident and injury! x Before the first ride after fitting a wheel check whether there is any grease or other lubricant residue left on the brake bodies from the fitting process. x Remove grease or other lubricant residue from the brake bodies if necessary. x Ensure that the brake bodies meet the braking surfaces. x If applicable remove the transport lock before fitting. x Pull the brake lever several times in the case of disc brakes and turn the wheel. x Ensure that the brake bodies do not grind against the braking surfaces. Cycle Maintenance. Brake system WARNING Brake failure due to incorrectly adjusted brakes. Risk of accident and injury! x Have brake adjustments carried out by your dealer only. x Do not make any adjustments to the brakes if you lack the nec essary expertise or the tools required. The following chapter will describe adjustments to a selection of brake systems. Adjust ment and operation may vary depending on the brake type and model. x Note that a brake system is a complex system. Adjustments to individual parts of the brake system affect each other. x Have your dealer carry out adjustments. x Refer to and follow information from the component manufacturer. x Test the functionality of the brake system after making adjustments. x Operate the brake and push the cycle in the direction of travel. Check whether the associated wheel is braked. x Lift the cycle and turn the wheel. Listen for grinding noises. x Have the brakes checked if you hear grinding noises. x If the brakes are not functional the cycle must not be used. x Have non functional brakes repaired or replaced by your dealer. Maintenance Cycle Rim brakes in general The following instructions apply to mechanical and hydraulic rim brakes Checking a brake pad NOTE Damage to the rim by the brake block holder due to worn brake pads. Risk of damage! x Immediately replace the brake pad or the brake block holder if necessary when pads are worn. x Contact your dealer if you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to replace the brake pads or the brake block holders if necessary. NOTE Damage to tyres or spokes due to incorrectly adjusted brake block holders. Risk of damage! x Adjust the brake block holder so that it is parallel to the rim. The brake pads must be changed before the wear indicator on the pad is reached. Have your dealer replace the brake pads or brake block holders if necessary and readjust the brake system afterwards. Illustr. Brake block holder with a wear indicator example Brake pad Wear indicator Cycle Maintenance Changing a brake pad WARNING Reduced brake force due to uneven wear on the brake pads. Risk of accident and injury! x Always replace brake pads in pairs. x Make identical adjustments to brake block holders that belong together. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to re place the brake block holders contact your dealer. Replacement may involve changing the entire brake block holder or just the brake pad de pending on the brake design. x Only install brake pads that fit your rim. Consult your dealer. x If the entire brake block holder needs to be changed follow the relevant instruc tions see the Maintenance Brake sys tem Mechanical rim brake chapter or Maintenance Brake system Hydraulic rim brake chapter. Illustr. Brake pad with a screw or pin example Brake block holder and brake pad Tyre Rim Distance between brake pad and tyre Brake pad fastening pin Brake pad fastening screw Maintenance Cycle Changing a screw type brake pad. Loosen the brake pad fixing screw by turning it anticlockwise Pull the used brake pad out of the brake block holder counter to the direction of travel If applicable follow the specification on the new brake pads regarding the direction of travel or note the screw recess Push the new brake pad into the brake block holder Tighten the brake pad fixing screw by turning it clockwise observing the applicable torque Changing a brake pad with a fixing pin. Pull the fixing pin out of the used brake pad Pull the used brake pad out of the brake block holder counter to the direction of travel Note the recess for the fixing pin Push the new brake pad into the brake block holder Push the fixing pin fully into the brake pad Changing the brake block holders on a racing bike In order to change the brake block holders the quick release lever on the brake must gen erally be opened. The position of the quick release lever may vary depending on the brake design. WARNING Lack of brake functionality when the quick release lever is open. Risk of accident and injury! x Only operate the quick release lever when you are removing wheels or changing brake block holders. x Check the quick release lever before every ride. x Close the quick release lever after maintenance work. Cycle Maintenance. Open the quick release lever see Illustr. Preparing the brake. Illustr. Preparing the brake Rim brake quick release lever. Remove the wheel see the Maintenance Removing the wheel chapter Loosen the brake block holder screw joint in an anticlockwise direction Remove the used brake block holders If applicable follow the specification on the brake block holders regarding the direction of travel and insert the new brake block holders Hand tighten the brake block holder screw joint in a clockwise direction Align the brake block holders parallel to the rim so that the distance between the upper edge of the brake block holder and the tyre is mm. see Illustr. Brake block holder alignment Close the quick release lever Tighten the brake block holder screw joint observing the applicable torque To adjust the distance between the brake block holders and the rim so that it is identi cal on both sides turn the centring screw Adjust the distance between the brake block holders and the rim to mm see Illustr. Racing bike rim brake. Maintenance Cycle Illustr. Racing bike rim brake example Illustr. Brake block holder alignment example Knurled screw Brake block holder Brake arm Brake block holder screw joint Centring screw Distance between the brake block holder and Brake block holder and brake pad tyre Rim Tyre Distance between the brake block holder and Rim rim Quick release lever Lock nut Adjusting brake pad distance on a racing bike The distance between the rim and brake pad is adjusted to mm Turn the centring screw until the distance between the two brake pads is equal Loosen the hub lock nut by giving it one turn see Illustr. Racing bike rim brake Tighten or loosen the knurled screw until the distance between the brake pads and the rim is mm Tighten the lock nut. Cycle Maintenance Mechanical rim brake Changing a brake block holder WARNING Reduced brake force due to uneven wear on the brake pads. Risk of accident and injury! x Always replace brake pads in pairs. x Make identical adjustments to brake block holders that belong together. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to re place the brake block holders contact your dealer. The brake cable is generally fastened to the brake with a cylindrical cable nipple. If the brake cable is screwed to the brake arms contact your dealer. Maintenance Cycle Illustr. Rim brake with a cable nipple Illustr. Rim brake with cable guide example example Cable nipple Cable guide Brake arm Brake arm Tyre Tyre Rim Rim Brake block holders Brake block holders Spring preload adjustment screw Spring preload adjustment screw Press both brake block holders against the rim and detach the brake cables. x If this is not possible loosen the brake cable tension lock nut and turn the knurled screw clockwise until the brake arms can be squeezed together enough to detach the brake cable Loosen the brake block holder screw joint in an anticlockwise direction see Illustr. Brake block holder alignment Pull the brake arms apart and remove the used brake block holders. If applicable note the order of the spacing washers Clean the brake with a clean cloth If applicable follow the specification on the brake block holders regarding the direc tion of travel and follow the order of the spacing washers. Insert the new brake block holders Hand tighten the brake block holder screw. Cycle Maintenance. Press the brake arms against the rim and align the brake block holders parallel to the rim Move the brake block holders until the distance between the upper edge of the brake block holders and the tyre is mm. see Illustr. Brake block holder alignment Attach the brake cable. x If this is not possible loosen the brake cable tension lock nut and turn the knurled screw clockwise until the brake arms can be squeezed togeth Illustr. Brake block holder alignment example er enough to attach the brake cable. Brake block holder. Fix the brake block holders in place by Brake block holder screw joint operating the brake lever and tighten the Distance between the brake block holder and brake block holder screw joint observing tyre the applicable torque. Tyre Rim Adjusting the brake block holder distance The distance between the rim and brake pads is adjusted to mm and must be equal on both sides. If the distances are different the spring preload is adjusted. If the distance from the rim to one of the two brake block holders is decreased the dis tance to the opposite brake block holder is increased. Maintenance Cycle x To increase the distance to a brake block holder turn the spring preload screw clockwise. x To decrease the distance to a brake block holder turn the spring preload screw anticlockwise Checking the brake system x Check the entire brake system for wear dirt and damage. x Carry out a stationary functionality test. Illustr. Brake block holder distance example Distance between the rim and brake pad Rim Brake block holders Spring preload screw Hydraulic rim brake WARNING Possible loss of eyesight on contact with brake fluid. Risk of accident and injury! x Wear protective gloves and safety goggles when carrying out maintenance work on a hydraulic rim brake. x If brake fluid gets in your eye rinse it out with clean water straight away. x Contact a doctor immediately after contact with brake fluid. Cycle Maintenance CAUTION Loss of force in the hydraulic brake system. Risk of accident and injury! x Have the brake fluid changed regularly by your dealer. x Refer to and follow specifications from the manufacturer re garding brake fluid changes. NOTE Damage to tyres or spokes due to incorrectly fitted brake pads. Risk of damage! x Align the brake pads parallel to the rim Changing the brake block holders Replacement may involve changing the entire brake block holder or just the brake pad de pending on the brake design. If only changing the brake pad follow the instructions in the Maintenance Brake system Rim brakes in general Changing a brake pad chapter. The brake block holders are generally fastened to the brake with a clip type mechanism Open the quick release lever on the brake Remove this side of the brake from the brake mount on the front fork or frame Remove the wheel see the Wheels and Illustr. Hydraulic rim brake example tyres chapter. Retaining bolts for the brake piston clamps. Pull the brake block holders out of the Quick release lever brake. Brake block holder Maintenance Cycle. If applicable note the direction of travel and insert the new brake block holders. The brake block holders will engage with an audible click Fit the wheel Put the previously removed side of the brake back on the brake mount and loosen the retaining bolts for the brake piston clamps Carefully operate the brake lever and align the brake block holders parallel to the rim so that the distance between the upper edge of the brake pads and the tyre is mm Close the quick release lever on the brake Operate the brake lever several times until the usual pressure point is reached Adjusting brake block holder distances Magura HS models The following describes how to adjust brake block holder distances using the example of a Magura HS. The distance between the rim and brake block holder is adjusted to mm Loosen the pressure point adjustment screw on the brake lever by turning it anticlockwise. Ensure that you do not unscrew it completely Turn the brake boss screw anticlockwise until the brake boss can be moved Press the brake cylinders and brake block holders against the rim Align the brake boss so that the brake block holders are parallel to the rim and the distance between the upper edge of the brake pad and the tyre is mm Illustr. Hydraulic rim brake example. Carefully operate the brake lever so that Brake boss screw the brake boss does not slip. Distance between the rim and brake block. Slowly release the brake lever until the holder distance between one brake block holder Brake block holders and the rim is mm see Brake cylinders Illustr. Hydraulic rim brake Hold or fix the brake lever in this position. Cycle Maintenance. Tighten the boss screw on the brake block holder by turning it clockwise observing the applicable torque Repeat steps for the opposite brake pad Operate the brake lever several times until the usual pressure point is reached Checking the brake system x Check the entire brake system for leaks dirt and damage. x Check the rims for dirt and wear. x Carry out a stationary functionality test Disc brake WARNING Possible loss of eyesight on contact with brake fluid. Risk of accident and injury! x Wear protective gloves and safety goggles when carrying out maintenance work on a hydraulic disc brake. x If brake fluid gets in your eye rinse it out with clean water straight away. x Contact a doctor immediately after contact with brake fluid. CAUTION Loss of force in the hydraulic brake system. Risk of accident and injury! x Have the brake fluid changed regularly by your dealer. Disc brakes centre themselves automatically. Adjustments to disc brakes are generally unnecessary. The brake must be readjusted or the brake disc trueness checked in case of doubt if grinding noises are produced. The maintenance work for mechanical and hydraulic disc brakes is largely identical. x Refer to the notes in this chapter for details specific to hydraulic brakes. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to adjust disc brakes con tact your dealer. Maintenance Cycle Bedding in a disc brake The disc brake bedding in process may be carried out in various ways depending on the brake pad material. x Refer to the information enclosed by the manufacturer about the brake pads Checking the brake disc The minimum thickness of the brake disc is generally shown on the disc. x Check the brake disc thickness with a measuring calliper. x Check the brake disc for dirt. x Check the brake disc trueness Adjusting the pressure point x More information about adjusting the pressure point can be found in the Brake Adjustments Adjusting the pressure point chapter. Cycle Maintenance Adjusting the brake calliper. Turn the brake calliper screws anticlock wise until the brake calliper can be moved Pull the brake lever for the brake that is to be adjusted and hold this position Turn the brake calliper screws clockwise until the brake calliper can no longer be moved Release the brake lever Tighten both brake calliper screws ob serving applicable torques. Illustr. Disc brake example Brake calliper screw Brake disc Changing brake pads NOTE Uneven brake pad wear due to changing the brake pads incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Always change brake pads in pairs. x Use brake pads of the same type. x Adjust the brakes after every change. NOTE Loss of brake fluid and damage to the brake due to operating the brake lever when the brake pads or wheels are removed. Risk of damage! x Never operate the brake lever while the wheel brake block holders or brake pads are removed. Maintenance Cycle. Remove the wheel see the Wheels and tyres Fitting and removing the front rear wheel chapter Remove the circlip from the screw and loosen it or bend the ends of the pin together and pull it out. Illustr. Brake calliper with a screw example Illustr. Brake calliper with a pin example Brake pad screw Pin Screw circlip Brake pads Brake pads. Pull the brake pads out of the brake calliper Clean the brake pistons with a clean cloth Press both brake pistons into the brake calliper simultaneously with a brake piston spreader Remove the used brake pads from the retaining bracket and clean the bracket with a clean cloth. Illustr. Disc brake pad example Cycle Maintenance. If applicable follow the specification on the new brake pads regarding the direction of travel or whether they are for the left or right hand side and insert the new brake pads in the brake calliper with the retaining bracket Push the brake pad screw or pin through the brake pad and holder eyes and into the brake calliper Tighten the screw observing the applicable torque and secure it with the circlip or bend the ends of the pin apart Fit the wheel Checking a brake pad Brake pads must generally be removed in order to check them. The minimum brake pad thickness may vary depending on the brake design. x Minimum thickness specifications for the brake pads can be found in the information enclosed by the manufacturer Remove the wheel see the Wheels and tyres Fitting and removing the front rear wheel chapter Remove the circlip from the screw and loosen it or bend the ends of the pin together and pull it out Pull the brake pads out of the brake calliper and remove them from the retaining bracket Check the thickness of the brake pads with a measuring calliper. x If the brake pad thickness does not meet the specified minimum thickness re place the brake pads as described in the previous chapter Changing brake pads Checking the brake system x Check hydraulic brake systems for leaks dirt and damage. x Check mechanical brake systems for damage. x Carry out a stationary functionality test. Maintenance Cycle Coaster brake If it is necessary to back pedal more than of a full pedal revolution before the coaster brake takes effect then it must be readjusted by your dealer. WARNING No coaster brake action where the chain has dropped off the chain ring or the reaction arm is loose. Risk of accident and injury! x If the coaster brake has no effect brake carefully using the front brake lever. x Check the chain tension regularly so that the chain cannot slip off the chainring see the Maintenance Chain tension chapter. x Feel the reaction arm and check whether the screw joint is tight against the chain stays. x If the reaction arm fixing screw is loose tighten it in a clockwise direction. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to fasten the reaction arm have the coaster brake checked and adjusted by your dealer. Illustr. Coaster brake example Chain stays Fastening clamp on the frame Screw joint Coaster brake reaction arm Cycle Maintenance. Crankset. Try to move the pedal inwards or out wards from side to side. x Observe whether the crank bot tom bracket or pedal bearing can be moved sideways see Illustr. Crank set using the example of a derailleur shifting system Try to move the pedal vertically upwards or downwards. x Observe whether the crank or pedal move vertically in the bottom bracket Illustr. Crankset using the example of a derailleur or pedal bearing. shifting system example x If the pedal crank or bottom bracket can Chainring be moved sideways or vertically have the Crank crankset checked by your dealer. Pedal. Lighting set. Check whether the cable connections to the headlamp rear lamp and dynamo if applicable are firmly in place and look for damage and corrosion. x If the cable connections are damaged corroded or loose have the lighting re paired by your dealer Switch on the lighting and check whether the headlamp and rear lamp are lit. With cycles that have a hub dynamo turn the front wheel to do this Check the headlamp adjustment see the Basic adjustments Lighting Headlamp chapter. x If you find damage to the lighting set have it repaired by your dealer. Maintenance Cycle. Hub dynamo x Check the cable connections to the hub dynamo. x Clean the connectors if necessary. x Check whether the connectors are tight and look for corrosion. x Reconnect if necessary. x If the cable connections are damaged have them replaced by your dealer Chain tension This chapter applies to models with a coaster brake or hub shifting system Set the cycle on the kickstand Press the chain upwards or downwards and check whether you can press it through a distance of between and mm see Illustr. Chain tension. x If you can press the chain upwards or mm downwards by less than mm. or more than mm. or if the Illustr. Chain tension example chain is grinding against the all round chain guard have the chain tension adjusted by your dealer Adjusting the chain tension with hub gears. Loosen the screw connection of the rear wheel with a suitable tool. If a coaster brake is installed in the hub the screw connection of the torque arm to the frame must also be removed Tension the chain by pulling the rear wheel backwards evenly in the dropout. Make sure that the rear wheel is aligned straight in the frame. The optimum chain tension is achieved when you can push the chain up and down a minimum of mm and a maximum of mm After adjusting the chain tension retighten the screws on the rear wheel. If necessary remount the torque arm of the coaster brake on the frame. If you do not have the necessary expertise and tools for installation contact your dealer. Cycle Maintenance Chain tension in derailleur shifting systems On cycles with a derailleur shifting system the chain is tensioned by the chain adjuster on the gear shifting system s rear derailleur Set the cycle on the kickstand or fix the cycle in place with a suitable work stand and check whether the chain is sagging Gently press the chain adjuster forwards and check whether it moves back by itself see Illustr. Chain adjuster on the rear wheel. x If the chain is sagging or the chain adjust er does not move back by itself have the chain adjuster repaired by your dealer. Illustr. Chain adjuster on the rear wheel example Shift cables. Check that the outer casings and inner wires are undamaged Operate the gear shifting system and check whether the shift cables move freely. x Have faulty shift cables replaced by your dealer Derailleur shifting system. Using a suitable work stand hang the cycle up by its frame or the seat post Turn the crankset in the direction of travel Shift through all the sprockets and chainrings see the Derailleur shifting system chapter Check that all the gears shift correctly and whether any unusual noises are produced in the process. x If the gears do not shift correctly or if you hear unusual noises when shifting gear contact your dealer Oil the gear shifting system see the Cleaning Gear shifting system chapter. Maintenance Cycle. Tyre pressure recommendations The figures in the following table are recommendations for the tyre pressure at different tyre widths. Follow the tyre pressure specifications shown on the tyre. Use a pump with a pressure display to inflate the tyres. Recommended tyre pressure Tyre width bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi mm bar psi Cycle Maintenance. Greasing and oiling Component Interval Care product After cleaning or riding in the rain Chain Chain oil every km mi Brake and shift cables When functioning poorly per year Silicon free grease Wheel bearing pedal bearing per year Bearing grease bottom bracket After cleaning or riding in the rain Dedicated spray Suspension elements according to manufacturer specifi grease cations Contact surfaces of carbon com Fitting lubricant for On fitting ponents carbon components Sliding surfaces of quick releases per year Grease spray oil Metal seat posts in metal frames On fitting Grease Shift system joints When functioning poorly per year Spray oil Brake joints When functioning poorly per year Spray oil According to man Joints in full suspension frames When functioning poorly when dirty ufacturer specifica tions Maintenance Cycle. Cleaning and maintenance schedule The cycle must be maintained at regular intervals. The details specified in the table are guidelines for riders who cover between and km and mi or be tween and hours of operation per year. Before Month Annu Other Component Task every ly ally interval ride Lighting Test functionality x Check tyre pressure x Tyres Check tread depth and x sidewalls Check lever travel pad thickness and position Rim brakes x relative to the rim stationary brake test Brake pads in rim Clean x brakes Brake cables pads Visual check x lines Lever travel pad thickness leak tightness x Disc brakes Stationary brake test Change brake fluid if DOT x fluid Check screws and tighten if x necessary Suspension fork Change oil grease x elastomers Cycle Maintenance Before Month Annu Other Component Task every ly ally interval ride x min. every years and replace af ter years Check and replace if neces Rigid fork or after sary km for bi cycles km for EPAC x no later than after Rims if using rim Check wall thickness replace the nd brakes if necessary set of brake pads Suspension seat Maintain x post Check bearing play x Bottom bracket Remove and re grease x Check and oil if necessary x x from km Chain Check for wear change if mi or necessary check derailleur hours shifting system of opera tion Crank Check or tighten x x at least Paint anodised alu Preserve twice a minium carbon year Check trueness and tension x Wheels x as Centre or re tension needed Maintenance Cycle Before Month Annu Other Component Task every ly ally interval ride x min. every years and replace af Aluminium handle ter years Check and replace if bars and handlebar or after necessary stem km for bi cycles km for EPAC x check Check and replace if at least Carbon handlebars necessary every years Check bearing play x Headset Grease x Preserve exception Rim x at least Metallic surfaces sidewall for rim brakes brake twice a discs year Check bearing play x Hubs Grease x Pedals Check bearing play x Clean grease lock Clipless pedals x mechanism Check screws x Seat post handle Remove and re grease bar stem x Carbon new fitting lubricant Front rear derail Clean oil x leurs Quick releases Check position x Cycle Maintenance Before Month Annu Other Component Task every ly ally interval ride Check and tighten if Screws and nuts x necessary Valves Check position x Shift brake cables Remove and grease x Check whether the vehicle is All vehicle parts x affected by a recall. Have this work carried out by your dealer only. Storage Cycle Storage If the cycle will not be used for a prolonged period the following points must be noted with regard to storage x Clean the cycle see the Cleaning chapter. x Store the cycle in a dry frost free place where it is protected against major fluctua tions in temperature. x To prevent tyre deformation store the cycle hanging by its frame. x On a cycle with a derailleur shifting system shift to the small chainring at the front and the smallest sprocket at the back to take as much strain as possible off the ca bles. After storage shift the chainring and cassette back to a gear combination designed for riding before using the cycle again see the Derailleur shifting system Basics Gear combinations chapter. Cycle Disposal Disposal. Cycle Do not dispose of your cycle in household waste. Take it to a municipal collection point or a recycling centre. Alternatively there are also collections organised by local councils and private organisa tions. Contact your local council about this or refer to postal information Electronic components and accessories Replaced or defective LED headlamps LED rear lamps or hub dynamos as well as acces sories such as bike computers or navigation devices must also be disposed of separately. Take parts and devices of this kind to a municipal collection point or a recycling centre Packaging Any kind of packaging must be disposed of separately. Add cardboard and paperboard to the waste paper and foils in the recyclable waste collection or ask your dealer for disposal Tyres and inner tubes Tyres and inner tubes must not be disposed of in household waste. Ask your dealer whether they take care of collection and disposal or take these items to a recycling centre or municipal collection point Lubricants and care products Do not dispose of lubricants and care products in household waste into the sewer system or into the environment. They must be taken to a hazardous waste collection point. Also follow the notes included on the packaging of such products. Disposal Cycle Supplementary user manual Pedelec S pedelecPedelec S pedelec psi kPa Bar L Seat tube Rechargeable battery Top tube Motor Control unit Pedal Handlebar stem Crank Handlebars Chainrings Brake lever Chain Front fork suspension fork Chain stays Headlamp Rear derailleur Spoke Sprocket cassette Wheel hub Seat stays Rim Rear lamp Tyre Seat post clamp Brake Saddle clamp Valve Saddle Down tube Example illustration Pedelec S pedelec Contents Basics Reading and storing the user manual Identification of warnings Proper use Product symbols Notes on screw turning directions Pedelec and S pedelec differences Pedelec S pedelec Differences between a pedelec S pedelec and bike EC certificate of conformity for S pedelecs CE marking and declaration of conformity for pedelecs Function Range Road use Minimum tread depth Minimum pull out height Insurance Exclusion of consumable parts Liability disclaimer Transportation of children and cargo Luggage Transportation Pedelec S pedelec By car By other means Transporting or shipping the rechargeable battery Emission sound pressure level Safety notes Usage safety notes Road safety notes Charger safety notes Rechargeable battery safety notes Misuse Pedelec S pedelec. Tuning and manipulation Residual risks General safety precautions In case of excessive heat In case of deformation odour or fluid Basic adjustments Preparations Pedelec S pedelec adjustments to suit the rider Notes on the key Charger Rechargeable battery Before every ride Before the first ride First ride Inspection instructions Operation Pedelec S pedelec Switching the drive on off Switching the lighting on off Drive overheating protection Control unit Pedelec pushing aid S pedelec starting aid Rechargeable battery Safety feature Rechargeable battery and charger applications Riding with an empty battery Removing inserting the rechargeable battery Charging the battery Connecting the rechargeable battery to the charger Stopping the charging process Charging times Cleaning and maintenance Checking the electric drive system Troubleshooting Storage Pedelec S pedelec. Storing the rechargeable battery Storing the pedelec S pedelec Disposal Cycle Electrical elements single use batteries and rechargeable batteries Electronic components and accessories Packaging Tyres and inner tubes Lubricants and care products Basics Pedelec S pedelec Basics. Reading and storing the user manual Contrary to the official standard EPACs electric power assisted cycles and S EPACs speed electric power assisted cycles are referred to below as pedelecs from pedal electric cycle and S pedelecs from speed pedal elec tric cycle as these terms are in common use. This user manual is a supplement. It assumes that you have read the Cycle user manual. Read all the warnings and notes in this user manual carefully before putting the pedelec or S pedelec into operation. This user manual is an integral part of the pedelec or S pedelec. Store this user manual carefully so that it is available at all times. If passing the pedelec or S pedelec on to a third party include the user manual along with it. Also refer to and follow the manuals enclosed with the pedelec S pedelec drive system Identification of warnings The following signal symbols and signal words are used in this user manual to warn against personal injury or damage to property. Warnings are intended to draw attention to possible dangers. Failure to follow a warning may result in injury to yourself or other people as well as causing property damage. Read and follow all warnings. DANGER This warning identifies a hazard with a high degree of risk resulting in serious injury or death if not avoided. WARNING This warning identifies a hazard with a moderate degree of risk resulting in seri ous injury if not avoided. Pedelec S pedelec Basics CAUTION This warning identifies a hazard with a low degree of risk resulting in minor or moderate injury if not avoided. NOTE This warning calls attention to potential property damage Proper use This user manual is a supplement and assumes that you have read the Cycle user manu al. Proper use also includes following what is specified in the Cycle user manual. The use of child seats and trailers of any kind with S pedelecs is prohibited by Accell Group. Neither the manufacturer nor the dealer accept any liability for damage caused due to im proper use. Please also refer to the Cycle category chapter. Basics Pedelec S pedelec. Product symbols The following symbols are shown on packaging the rechargeable battery or the charger. Symbol Description Marking for electrical devices that must not be disposed of in household or non recycla ble waste. Dispose of electrical devices with this marking at suitable collection points for environmentally friendly recycling. Marking for single use and rechargeable batteries that must not be disposed of in household or non recyclable waste. Dispose of single use and rechargeable batteries with this marking at suitable collection points for environmentally friendly recycling. Marking for materials that are hazardous to the environment. Take particular care when handing products with this marking. Observe disposal regulations! Marking for recyclable materials. Sort packaging and dispose of separately. Dispose of cardboard along with waste paper and film in your recycling collection. Products marked with this symbol meet all applicable European Economic Community regulations. Marking for products that must only be used indoors. The V Hz mains power supply has a class II protection rating. USA The V Hz mains power supply has a class II protection rating. Symbol for direct current DC. Symbol for alternating current AC Pedelec S pedelec Basics. Notes on screw turning directions NOTE Material damage due to handling screw joints incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Observe the turning direction of screws thru axles and nuts. x Tighten screws thru axles and nuts by turning them clockwise. x Loosen screws thru axles and nuts by turning them anticlockwise. In the event of any deviation from this rule the change in turning direction will be indicated in the respective chapter. Refer to the relevant notes Pedelec and S pedelec differences Pedelec The following paragraph is only applicable for Europe Pedelecs are cycles with an electric auxiliary motor that provides assistance up to a maxi mum of km h. mph when you pedal. Depending on the cycle model there may be a pushing aid which can accelerate the cycle up to km h mph depending on what gear the shifting system is in. The following paragraph is only applicable for the USA Pedelecs are cycles with an electric auxiliary motor that provides assistance up to a maxi mum of mph when you pedal. By law pedelecs are class see the Explanation of sym bols chapter. There may be a pushing aid depending on the cycle model. How this func tions is described in more detail in the drive system user manual enclosed with the cycle. Pedelecs are cycles that are legally classed as bikes in most countries. Acquaint yourself with the national and regional regulations and classification in your country. x Find out what category your pedelec falls into in your country. Note that regulations vary from country to country. x Acquaint yourself with the applicable national and regional road regulations. x Continually acquaint yourself with changes in the content of applicable regulations. x Note that tampering with the pedelec speed can not only have legal consequences but may also lead to accidents. Basics Pedelec S pedelec S pedelec The following paragraph is only applicable for Europe S pedelecs are cycles with an electric auxiliary motor that provides assistance up to a max imum of km h mph when you pedal. Depending on the model all electric operation up to a maximum of km h mph may also be possible. The following paragraph is only applicable for the USA S pedelecs are cycles with an electric auxiliary motor that provides assistance up to a maxi mum of mph when you pedal. There may be a pushing aid depending on the cycle model. How this functions is described in more detail in the drive system user manual enclosed with the cycle. By law S pedelecs are class see the Explanation of symbols chapter. In some countries S pedelecs are classed as motor vehicles. Acquaint yourself with the na tional and regional regulations and classification in your country. Note national and regional differences with regard to Minimum age limits for using S pedelecs Driving licenses Compulsory insurance and registration if applicable Operating licenses Compulsory helmet use Provisions regarding use on bike paths woodland trails and forest roads x Note that tampering with the S pedelec speed can not only have legal consequences but may also lead to accidents Differences between a pedelec S pedelec and bike CAUTION Unexpected pedelec S pedelec behaviour due to sharp accelera tion. Risk of accident and injury! x Frost rain sand or leaves on the road can lead to accidents par ticularly with pedelecs S pedelecs that have front wheel drive. x Use the cycle s gear shifting system and always ride in a low gear. Pedelec S pedelec Basics The components of the electric drive are the main differences between a conventional bike and a pedelec S pedelec. Due to the significantly higher weight and change in weight distribution a pedelec S pedelec handles differently. The drive has a significant impact on braking behaviour. Pedelecs S pedelecs require more braking force. This can increase wear. On pedelecs S pedelecs with a central motor there are significantly higher forces acting on the drive train. This increases wear. Electrical assistance may increase riding speed. Careful riding is required as other road users may need to adjust to the higher speed of the pedelec S pedelec. The handling and braking behaviour requires appropriate expertise as does use of the rechargeable battery and charger. x Familiarise yourself with the characteristics of the pedelec S pedelec even if you already have experience with electrically assisted cycles see the Basic adjustments Before the first ride chapter EC certificate of conformity for S pedelecs The following paragraph is only applicable for Europe CoC certificate of conformity This document is enclosed with your S pedelec and uniquely assigned to this one cycle. The CoC confirms that the cycle corresponds to the approved type. You need the CoC to insure the cycle and to register it if applicable. Acquaint yourself with national and regional regula tions before your first ride. Please note Keep the CoC in a safe place. You need it to insure the cycle. The CoC will also be required by the buyer in the event that you sell the cycle. There is great effort and significant cost involved in producing a duplicate CoC at a later date. Non EU countries In countries outside the European Union the EC certificate of conformity supplied may not be sufficient. In Switzerland for example separate type approval and a cycle registration document are required. Basics Pedelec S pedelec. CE marking and declaration of conformity for pedelecs The following paragraph is only applicable for Europe With the CE marking on the pedelec and the declaration of conformity the manufacturer of your pedelec confirms that the product meets all requirements and other relevant provi sions in directives EC EC and standards ISO and DIN EN as well as other relevant directives and standards if applicable. You can find the declaration of conformity enclosed with your pedelec. Status at the time of publication Function The drive only assists with riding when you are also pedalling. The amount of assistance is adjusted automatically according to the selected gear depending on the system or model installed pedal force load and speed Depending on the design of your pedelec the drive may assist up to a speed of km h. mph. The pushing aid can accelerate the cycle up to km h mph depending on what gear the shifting system is in. Depending on the design of your S pedelec the drive may assist up to a speed of km h mph. The starting aid can accelerate the cycle up to km h mph depending on what gear the shifting system is in. In terms of the maximum speed with pedal assistance a tolerance of is permitted and possible when riding Range The drive is an auxiliary motor. To obtain the longest possible range the following points must be noted The motor works most efficiently at a cadence of crank revolutions minute. x Shift to a lower or higher gear before inclines and descents to avoid excessively fast or slow cadences. x Operate the gear shifting system as if you were riding without assistance. x Use the smaller gears in your gear shifting system on inclines in headwinds and with heavy loads. Starting in the lowest gear increases the range. x Always ride in a low gear and pedal as hard as possible. x On models with hub shifting systems you can shift into stgear while stationary. On models with derailleur shifting systems you should shift into the lowest gear while you are still stopped. Pedelec S pedelec Basics Riding uphill reduces the range as does frequent stopping and starting. x Shift down to a lower gear in good time before inclines. x Look ahead and anticipate while riding so that you can avoid unnecessary stops. Riding on unsurfaced ground reduces the range. x Where possible ride on surfaced roads and paths. A high gross weight cycle rider luggage increases energy consumption. x Do not transport unnecessary loads. You can get the most kilometres out of a new and fully charged battery. Neglected cleaning and maintenance can reduce the range. x Take care of the pedelec S pedelec on a regular basis and check the tyre pressure regularly. x Continually test the functionality of the pedelec S pedelec and check for wear as well as referring to all notes on the rechargeable battery in this user manual and in the drive system manual. x Observe maintenance intervals. High average speeds reduce the range. The stronger the assistance mode the shorter the range. Ambient temperatures below C F and above C F can reduce the range. Particularly high and particularly low ambient temperatures can permanently speed up battery wear or even damage the rechargeable battery. x Store the rechargeable battery at room temperature before a ride to ensure an opti mum temperature for use. x Refer to the notes on storing the rechargeable battery correctly. x Do not insert the rechargeable battery in the holder until just before the ride. Because the range is dependent on a variety of factors such as the level of assistance speed shifting behaviour tyres and tyre pressure age and condition of the rechargeable battery route profile and conditions headwind and ambient temperature as well as the weight of the cycle rider and luggage it is not possible to accurately predict the range be fore setting off or during a ride. In general however If the level of assistance remains the same then the less force you need to apply to reach a particular speed e.g. through optimum shifting behaviour the less energy the drive will consume and the longer the range from the battery charge. If all other conditions are the same then the higher the selected level of assistance the shorter the range. Basics Pedelec S pedelec. Road use The following paragraph is only applicable for Europe Depending on the design pedelec assistance may be effective up to a speed of km h. mph. With an S pedelec the assistance is switched off at a speed of km h mph. The following paragraph is only applicable for the USA Depending on the design pedelec assistance may be effective up to a speed of mph. With an S pedelec the assistance is switched off at a speed of mph. x Find out before your first ride whether your pedelec S pedelec is equipped in accord ance with requirements for use on the road. Note that national and regional regula tions may vary. For example Brakes Lighting and reflectors Bell or other approved warning device Child trailers and child seats x Acquaint yourself with the applicable national and regional road regulations. For example Minimum rider age Compulsory insurance Operating licenses Compulsory helmet use Compulsory use of reflective safety vests x Refer to and follow the traffic code. x Bear in mind that tampering with the pedelec S pedelec speed or tuning the pedelec S pedelec can have legal consequences. Laws and regulations can change at any time. Regularly acquaint yourself with national and regional regulations Minimum tread depth The following paragraph is only applicable for Europe Please note that a minimum tread depth of mm is prescribed for cycles such as S pedelecs. Pedelec S pedelec Basics. Minimum pull out height Depending on the S pedelec model the seat post may be labelled with a minimum pull out depth marking. x Pull the seat post out far enough that the lighting components are not obscured by any license plate which may be fitted to the saddle Insurance x Check whether damage is adequately covered by the terms of your insurance. x If in doubt contact your insurance company Exclusion of consumable parts In addition to the consumables listed in the Cycle user manual the rechargeable battery is also a consumable part. This does not include manufacturing defects. Information on normal operational wear and tear can be found in the respective system operating manual. The respective system instruction manual is enclosed with your pedelec S pedelec. Further information can be found on the respective brand homepage see list in chapter In formation online in the directory Liability disclaimer The manufacturer is not liable for damage or failures caused due to any direct or indirect use of the pedelec S pedelec which falls outside what is deemed proper use Transportation of children and cargo Accell Group does not permit the use of S pedelecs to transport children or cargo in a trailer. Accell Group does not allow the option of using S pedelecs to transport a child in a child seat. Accell Group accepts no liability for any damage resulting from the use of trailers and or child seats with S pedelecs. As to using a trailer of any design and or a child seat with a pedelec see the Safety Notes on carrying children chapter in the general cycle manual. Basics Pedelec S pedelec. Luggage Position your luggage on the S pedelec so as not to obscure any license plate which may be fitted to the saddle Transportation Pedelec S pedelec CAUTION Damage to the rechargeable battery due to impacts. Risk of short circuit and fire! x Remove the rechargeable battery before transporting the pedelec S pedelec. x Transport the rechargeable battery with particular care. The rechargeable battery must be removed from the pedelec S pedelec before transport ing. see the Operation Rechargeable battery Removing inserting the rechargeable battery chapter. Afterwards cover the contacts of the rechargeable battery to protect it against a short circuit. If the control unit is detachable it should be removed before trans portation to prevent damage and loss. x Acquaint yourself with national and regional regulations about transporting and ship ping rechargeable batteries. x Refer to and follow the enclosed system manuals By car x Stow the rechargeable battery so that it cannot slip or collide with other items during the journey. x Protect the rechargeable battery against compressive stress by securing it correctly and avoid impacts. x Stow the rechargeable battery so that it will not be warmed up by sunlight or other heat sources. x When lifting the pedelec S pedelec note that these are heavier than other cycles and have a different weight distribution. Pedelec S pedelec Basics The braking and lateral forces acting on the bike carrier are higher with pedelecs S pedelecs than with conventional bikes. x Check whether your bike carrier is suitable for pedelecs S pedelecs. x Ask a dealer about suitable bike carriers for your pedelec S pedelec By other means The transportation of pedelecs S pedelecs with a rechargeable battery is subject to par ticular regulations which are constantly being extended or updated. These regulations may vary depending on the mode of transport used. x Ask the rail company airline or ferry operator about applicable regulations for trans porting pedelecs S pedelecs in good time before your departure. When doing so have the technical specifications for your pedelec S pedelec to hand Transporting or shipping the rechargeable battery Separately transported lithium ion batteries are hazardous goods. Undamaged recharge able batteries may be transported by private users on the road without further require ments. x Acquaint yourself with national and regional road regulations about transporting hazardous goods. The rechargeable battery must not be carried on a plane as hand luggage. x Observe specific requirements with regard to packaging and labelling for transporta tion e.g. when transporting by air or contracting a carrier. x Find out about transporting rechargeable batteries and suitable transport packaging by asking a carrier or dealer directly for example. x Ensure that rechargeable batteries transported in hand luggage or in a rucksack e.g. as spare batteries are protected against liquids and short circuits. x Do not continue to use rechargeable batteries after a fall. Have rechargeable batteries checked before their next use Emission sound pressure level The A weighted emission sound pressure level at the driver s ears is less than db A. Safety notes Pedelec S pedelec Safety notes This chapter covers notes on the rechargeable battery. Even if all safety precautions are ob served the rechargeable battery can still become dangerous such as if it catches fire. x In an emergency make sure that your actions do not put you or other people in dan ger at any time. x The instructions in this chapter must be followed in the event of an emergency. x Read these instructions so that you can be focussed and prepared when reacting to an emergency. x Refer to and follow the enclosed system manuals Usage safety notes WARNING Danger to children and people with reduced physical sensory or mental capabilities or with a lack of experience and expertise e.g. children or people with physical or mental limitations. Risk of accident and injury! x Only allow the pedelec S pedelec rechargeable battery and charger to be used by people who have been instructed in how to use them safely and properly and who understand the risks resulting from their use. x Do not allow children to play with the pedelec S pedelec. x Supervise children using the pedelec. x Instruct children in how to handle the pedelec. WARNING Malfunctions and danger due to repairs without expertise. Risk of accident and injury! x Have repairs carried out by a dealer. Pedelec S pedelec Safety notes NOTE Limited use of the pedelec S pedelec due to high and low temper atures. Risk of damage! x Observe temperature limits. x Avoid transporting the rechargeable battery by car in high out door temperatures. Ensure that you park the car in the shade when transporting the rechargeable battery by car. x Do not park the pedelec S pedelec near heat sources. x Avoid direct sunlight on the rechargeable battery when parking the pedelec S pedelec Road safety notes WARNING Incorrect or improper use of the pedelec S pedelec. Risk of accident and injury! x Only use the cycle on public roads if its equipment meets na tional and regional road regulations. x Refer to and follow national and regional road regulations. WARNING Lack of protective headgear. Risk of injury! x Wear a suitable fitted helmet when riding. Safety notes Pedelec S pedelec. Charger safety notes DANGER Electric shock due to handling the electric current and live compo nents incorrectly. Risk of death! x Check the charger mains cable and mains plug for damage be fore each use. x If you find or suspect any damage do not use the charger. x Only use the charger indoors and do not leave it unattended during use. x Connect the charger solely to a properly installed plug socket that meets the technical specifications of your charger. x Make sure that the charger never comes into contact with water or other liquids. Pedelec S pedelec Safety notes WARNING Incorrect use of the charger. Risk of short circuit followed by fire! x Check the charger mains cable and mains plug for damage be fore each use. x If you find or suspect any damage do not use the charger. x Place the charger so that it cannot become damp or wet. x Never clean or spray the charger with liquid. x Do not leave the charger unattended during use. x If constant monitoring is not possible then the charger may only be used in rooms where a smoke detector is installed. x The charger must not be used if any damage is found or sus pected. x Do not open dismantle pierce or deform the charger. x Repairs to the charger must only be carried out by a dealer and only using original spare parts. Safety notes Pedelec S pedelec NOTE Damage to the charger due to it being used incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Always place the charger on fireproof material e.g. stone glass ceramic when charging. x Use the charger solely to charge the original rechargeable bat tery. x Always pull the mains plug out of the socket after using the charger. x Pull on the plug and not the cable when disconnecting the charger from the mains after charging. x Read the additional safety notes on the charger housing Rechargeable battery safety notes DANGER Poisoning or fatal injury from leaking fumes and or hydrofluoric acid in the event of the rechargeable battery catching fire. Risk of death! x Remove yourself and other people from the vicinity of the burn ing battery. Pedelec S pedelec Safety notes WARNING Damage to the rechargeable battery can cause fires and explosions. Risk of fire and explosion! x Do not attempt to put out the rechargeable battery yourself. x Keep back from the rechargeable battery and let it burn out in a controlled way. WARNING Internal damage to the rechargeable battery can cause overheating or result in liquid and gas leaking from the battery. Risk of fire and explosion! x Have the rechargeable battery checked by a dealer after falls or hard impacts. x Do not open dismantle pierce or deform the rechargeable bat tery and battery housing. CAUTION Injury to skin or eyes from leaking lithium in the event that the re chargeable battery is damaged. Risk of injury! x Only touch damaged rechargeable batteries with protective gloves. x Wear safety goggles and an apron when in contact with a dam aged rechargeable battery. Safety notes Pedelec S pedelec NOTE Damage to the drive and rechargeable battery due to charging in correctly. Risk of damage! x Do not charge the battery if you suspect it is damaged. x It is essential that you read the Operation Rechargeable bat tery Charging the battery chapter before charging the battery for the first time. x Only charge the battery with the original charger and do not leave it unattended while charging. x Always place the rechargeable battery on fireproof material e.g. stone glass ceramic when charging. x If in doubt have your dealer explain how to use rechargeable batteries. NOTE Damage to the rechargeable battery drive or nearby items due to using the battery incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Use the rechargeable battery supplied solely for the original drive. x Keep the rechargeable battery away from fire and other heat sources and protect it against strong sunlight. x Protect the rechargeable battery against moisture. Never clean or spray the rechargeable battery with liquid. x Do not use the rechargeable battery if you notice unusual heat or discolouration or if the battery is obviously damaged. Pedelec S pedelec Safety notes. Misuse Ensure you do not misuse the Pedelec S pedelec in any of the following ways Using the pedelec S pedelec for competitions jumps stunts or tricks if the cycle s category excludes these activities Improper repairs and maintenance Improper use of the rechargeable battery Structural changes to the pedelec S pedelec s condition as delivered especially to the tuning and any other modifications to the pedelec S pedelec Opening and changing any component of the pedelec S pedelec Charging outside the temperature range of C F to C F Deep discharge of the rechargeable battery due not charging it for over months or improper storage of the rechargeable battery outside the optimum temperature range of C F to C F. Ambient temperatures below C F and above C F can reduce the range. Particularly high and particularly low ambient temperatures can permanently speed up battery wear or even damage the rechargeable battery. Misuse of the pedelec can lead to exclusion of the warranty Tuning and manipulation Tuning and manipulation of the pedelec S pedelec includes the conversion of the speed sensor the installation of a tuning chip the replacement of sprockets with parts that do not meet the specification number of teeth of the original parts and other changes to the hardware components changes to the control software. Tuning and manipulation of the pedelec S pedelec can have legal consequences for the user. Possible consequences are an administrative offence and a fine a criminal offence for driving without a driving licence in case of recurrence possibly an entry in the criminal record the withdrawal of the driving licence the loss of insurance cover under a personal liability insurance policy Safety notes Pedelec S pedelec the loss of liability for material defects the guarantee and warranty claims a partial debt in the event of an accident For more information you can request the component replacement guide from your dealer Residual risks Even if all safety notes and warnings are observed using the pedelec S pedelec still entails unforeseeable risks such as Drivers and pedestrians failing to realise at first glance that a pedelec S pedelec may be travelling at a higher speed. Damage to the rechargeable battery caused by either low or high temperatures or by direct sunlight. Battery malfunction General safety precautions If the rechargeable battery is found to be faulty or damaged x Do not use the rechargeable battery. x Wear protective gloves when touching the rechargeable battery. x Wear safety goggles for your own protection. x Do not breathe in any leaking gases or steam. x Avoid skin contact with leaking fluid In case of excessive heat If the rechargeable battery is found to generate excessive heat x Remove the rechargeable battery if you can do so safely. x Choose a temporary storage location outdoors and store the rechargeable battery in a fireproof container or place it on fireproof ground. x If storing the rechargeable battery outdoors clearly secure a wide area around the storage location. x Have the rechargeable battery checked by a dealer straight away. Pedelec S pedelec Safety notes In case of deformation odour or fluid If the rechargeable battery is found to be deformed producing an odour or leaking fluid x Remove the rechargeable battery if you can do so safely. x If you can move the rechargeable battery safely place it in a fireproof and acid resist ant container such as one made of stone or clay. x Choose a fireproof temporary storage location outdoors. If storing the rechargeable battery outdoors clearly secure a wide area around the storage location. x Have the rechargeable battery disposed of by a dealer immediately. Basic adjustments Pedelec S pedelec Basic adjustments This chapter contains information about basic adjustments to the pedelec S pedelec and information about how to put the cycle into use Preparations This chapter contains information about how to prepare the pedelec S pedelec for use Pedelec S pedelec adjustments to suit the rider Individual adjustments are described in the Basic adjustments chapter of the Cycle user manual Notes on the key x The key number s stamped on the key should be recorded on your cycle passport. x If you lose the key contact a dealer for a replacement Charger x Refer to the information enclosed by the manufacturer about the charger. x Read the specifications on the charger nameplate. x If these specifications do not match the voltage supply do not use the charger. x Before connecting the charger to the voltage supply read the Operation Recharge able battery Charging the battery chapter Rechargeable battery x Charge the battery fully see the Operation Rechargeable battery Charging the battery chapter Before every ride The pedelec S pedelec must be checked according to the Basic adjustments Inspection instructions chapter. Pedelec S pedelec Basic adjustments. Before the first ride Warning Incorrect operation of the vehicle due to insufficient knowledge. Risk of accident and injury! x If you are unfamiliar with the arrangement of the brake levers for the front or rear wheel brake have them changed by your dealer. CAUTION Unexpected pedelec S pedelec behaviour due to incorrect opera tion. Risk of accident and injury! x Familiarise yourself with the Operation chapter before switch ing the cycle on for the first time. The rechargeable battery is fully charged before your first ride see the Operation Re chargeable battery Charging the battery chapter First ride The components of the electric drive are the main differences between a conventional bike and a pedelec S pedelec. Information on the differences between bikes pedelecs and S pedelecs can be found in the Basics Pedelec and S pedelec differences and Basics Differences between a pedelec S pedelec and bike chapters. x Read these chapters carefully before your first ride. x Practice operation and use off the road in an open space on even solid ground with good grip. x Refer to the control unit information enclosed by the manufacturer Practice using the pushing aid Practice using the pedelec S pedelec and its features without motor assistance at first. Then gradually increase the strength of the assistance Choose the lowest level of assistance on the control unit. Basic adjustments Pedelec S pedelec. Start slowly Operate the brakes carefully and get accustomed to the brake action see the Brake chapter in the cycle user manual. x When you can operate the brakes safely get accustomed to the assistance from the drive. x When you can ride safely repeat the familiarisation process and brake test for the other gears Inspection instructions Note the following points before every ride x Regularly check your pedelec S pedelec according to the inspection instructions in the Cycle user manual see the Before setting off Before every ride chapter in the cycle user manual. x Check whether the lock for the rechargeable battery is fastened. x Check the rechargeable battery for damage visual inspection. x Check the drive for damage visual inspection. x Check whether cables and connectors are securely in place and look for damage visual inspection. x If you discover any missing or damaged parts do not use the pedelec S pedelec. x Have the pedelec S pedelec repaired by a dealer. x Prepare the rechargeable battery and the charger for putting your pedelec S pedelec into operation. x If you own an S pedelec check whether your insurance plate is still valid. Pedelec S pedelec Operation Operation Different drive units may be installed depending on the cycle model. x Acquaint yourself with how to operate the drive before your first ride. x Refer to and follow the enclosed system manuals. x Have your dealer instruct you on operating the drive Pedelec S pedelec CAUTION Unexpected pedelec S pedelec behaviour due to incorrect opera tion. Risk of accident and injury! x Familiarise yourself with the Operation chapter before switch ing the cycle on for the first time Switching the drive on off x To switch the drive on and off press the On Off button on the control unit. x Note that there must be no load on the pedals when switching the drive on Switching the lighting on off Warning Poor visibility on the road. Risk of accident and injury! x Before setting off make sure that your pedelec S pedelec has enough battery charge to power the lighting during the ride. x Use the control unit to switch the lighting on or off. Operation Pedelec S pedelec. Drive overheating protection CAUTION Overheating of the drive and rechargeable battery in the event of a malfunction. Risk of burning! x Avoid contact with the drive and rechargeable battery. The drive is automatically protected against damage due to overheating. When the drive temperature is too high the drive switches off automatically. x To prevent the drive overheating use a low level of assistance from the drive in high outdoor temperatures or on steep inclines. x If the drive switches off while riding with a charged battery temporarily use the pedelec S pedelec like a conventional bike so that the drive can cool down. Switch off the assistance. x If the fault is not corrected by letting the drive cool down have the pedelec S pedelec checked by a dealer Control unit CAUTION Delayed rider reaction due to distraction. Risk of accident and injury! x Familiarise yourself with the control unit features. x Familiarise yourself with the control unit features so that you can focus completely on the road. Pedelec S pedelec Operation Pedelec pushing aid CAUTION Pinching and crushing of body parts by moving components. Risk of injury! x Only use the pushing aid feature when pushing the pedelec. x Only use the pushing aid when the pedelec is standing on both wheels. Depending on the model the pedelec may be equipped with a pushing aid. The pushing aid makes it easier to push the pedelec. The speed of this feature depends on what gear is en gaged. The maximum is km h mph. The lower the selected gear the lower the speed of the pushing aid S pedelec starting aid The following section is only applicable for Europe The S pedelec is equipped with a starting aid up to a maximum of km h mph. This starting aid is all electric and does not require pedal assistance Rechargeable battery NOTE Irreparable damage to the pedelec S pedelec due to self discharge for technical reasons. Risk of damage! x Recharge an empty battery straight away. Pedelecs S pedelecs are usually equipped with a lithium ion li ion rechargeable battery. With proper use li ion batteries are safe. Lithium ion batteries have high energy density. For this reason a great deal of caution must be taken when handling these rechargeable batteries. For rider safety reliable operation and a long service life it is essential to note the following After the first full charge the battery can be partially charged. Partially charging the battery will not damage it as lithium ion rechargeable batteries do not have a mem Operation Pedelec S pedelec ory effect. Partial charges are rated proportionally to their capacity a charge of corresponds to half a charge discharge cycle. Temperature limits must be observed for the rechargeable battery to function properly. x Refer to the information enclosed by the manufacturer about the rechargeable bat tery as well as the enclosed drive system manuals. Note that ambient temperatures below C F and above C F can reduce the range. Particularly high and particularly low ambient temperatures can permanently speed up battery wear or even damage the rechargeable battery. x The battery is subject to a certain amount of wear. For details about the charging cycles and the corresponding power losses refer to the information in the system operation manual of the associated drive system. x If you experience excessive power loss e.g. operating time is significantly short ened have the rechargeable battery checked by a dealer. x Never make any alterations to the rechargeable battery yourself Safety feature CAUTION Overheating of the drive and rechargeable battery in the event of a malfunction. Risk of burning! x Avoid contact with the drive and rechargeable battery. The rechargeable battery and or the charger are equipped with a temperature con trol which only allows charging when the temperature is between C F and C F. If the rechargeable battery is outside these temperature limits the charg ing process is stopped automatically. x Refer to and follow the notes in the system manual if charging stops prematurely Rechargeable battery and charger applications The drive rechargeable battery and charger are designed for each other and approved sole ly for use with the pedelec S pedelec. Pedelec S pedelec Operation Riding with an empty battery Please note that the lighting is powered by the cycle s rechargeable battery. If the battery charge is depleted enough that the pedal assistance system shuts off the lighting will only have limited power and will subsequently shut off as well. If the battery charge is completely used up during a ride the pedelec S pedelec can be used like a conventional bike. x Note that using a pedelec S pedelec without assistance is more difficult than using a conventional bike Removing inserting the rechargeable battery NOTE Damage to the electronics due to removing the rechargeable bat tery incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Switch off the drive before removing the rechargeable battery. NOTE Damage to the rechargeable battery due to dropping. Risk of damage! x Before use check that the rechargeable battery is correctly in serted in the holder and that the lock is engaged. The rechargeable battery may be removed inserted differently depending on the drive sys tem. x Refer to the enclosed system manuals. Operation Pedelec S pedelec Charging the battery WARNING Heat leaking gas and damage to the rechargeable battery due to incorrect charging. Risk of injury and fire! x Do not use or touch the rechargeable battery and charger if you notice unusual heat odour or discolouration or if the battery is obviously damaged. x Pull the charger plug out of the socket. x Pull on the plug and not the cable when disconnecting the charger from the mains after charging. With some models the battery can be charged while it is inserted in the pedelec S pedelec. With other models the battery must be removed before charging. x Only charge the battery in a dry well ventilated room. x If you can shelter your pedelec S pedelec in a dry and safe place e.g. in a garage or bike shed charge the battery while it is inserted. x If you cannot shelter your pedelec S pedelec remove the battery to charge it see the Operation Rechargeable battery Removing inserting the rechargeable battery chapter. x Remove any dirt from the charging port and contacts with a dry cloth. x Do not leave the rechargeable battery unattended while charging. x Charging a battery while inserted Switch off the pedelec S pedelec to charge the battery. x Charging a battery while removed Always place the charger on fireproof material e.g. stone glass ceramic when charging. Pedelec S pedelec Operation Connecting the rechargeable battery to the charger. Insert the charging plug on the charger into the charging port on the rechargeable battery or the battery holder Ensure that you line up the charging plug so that the contacts on the charging plug match those on the charging port Monitor the charging process Stopping the charging process Charging can be stopped before the battery is fully charged e.g. for storage see the Stor age Storing the rechargeable battery chapter Charging times When the rechargeable battery is empty a full charging process generally takes between and hours. The duration of the battery charging process is dependent on the following factors Battery charge level Battery temperature and ambient temperature Battery capacity Battery model Charger Cleaning and maintenance Pedelec S pedelec Cleaning and maintenance WARNING Injury from electric current during cleaning maintenance and repair work. Risk of electric shock and short circuit! x Pull the charger plug out of the socket. x Pull on the plug and not the cable when disconnecting the charger from the mains. x Remove the rechargeable battery from the pedelec S pedelec before cleaning and maintenance. x Do not clean the components with running water or other liq uids. x Do not use high pressure equipment for cleaning. WARNING Touching hot components. Risk of burning! x Let the drive and rechargeable battery cool down before touch ing the components. x Refer to the Cycle user manual for information about cleaning and maintenance. x Check safety related components before every ride see the Basic adjustments Before every ride chapter. x Check your pedelec S pedelec after a fall. x Have maintenance work carried out by a dealer. Pedelec S pedelec Cleaning and maintenance. Checking the electric drive system x Refer to the enclosed system manuals. x Check all electrical cables for damage. x Examine the display for cracks and damage and check that it is firmly in place. x Check the control unit for cracks and damage and check that it is firmly in place. x Check the rechargeable battery for damage. x Check that all plug contacts are properly in place and reconnect them if necessary. x Check the cable harness for damage. Check that the outer casing is undamaged. x Carry out a visual inspection of the auxiliary motor Troubleshooting WARNING Working on the pedelec S pedelec with the rechargeable battery inserted or the charger connected. Risk of electric shock! x Remove the rechargeable battery from the holder. x Disconnect the charger from the voltage supply. CAUTION Fingers caught in moving parts. Risk of injury! x Remove the rechargeable battery from the holder before carry ing out maintenance work. Cleaning and maintenance Pedelec S pedelec CAUTION The drive and rechargeable battery may become hot in the event of a malfunction. Risk of burning! x Let the drive and rechargeable battery cool down before touch ing them. The components of the pedelec S pedelec are automatically checked on an ongoing basis. If a fault is found an appropriate error message will appear on the display. x Refer to the enclosed system manuals. x If the actions listed do not solve the problem contact a dealer. Depending on the fault type the drive may be switched off automatically. You can continue to ride without assistance from the drive. x Contact a dealer to have the drive checked before your next ride. Pedelec S pedelec Storage Storage. Storing the rechargeable battery WARNING Respiratory tract eye or skin irritation from leaking fumes or fluid in the event of damage to or improper use of the rechargeable bat tery. Risk of injury! x If you experience symptoms seek medical advice straight away. x Make sure there is an ample supply of fresh air if the rechargea ble battery is defective. x Remove contaminated clothing immediately. x Avoid contact with the battery fluid. x If battery fluid gets into your eyes rinse them out with plenty of water. Seek advice from a doctor immediately. x Wash your skin thoroughly with soap and water. If the rechargeable battery will not be used for a prolonged period the following points must be noted with regard to storage x Charge the battery to around of its capacity. x If necessary remove the rechargeable battery from the holder to store it. x Store the rechargeable battery out of reach of children and animals and in such a way that it cannot fall down. x Store the rechargeable battery ideally at around C F to C F in a dry and well ventilated place such as an appropriate basement room. x Protect the rechargeable battery against moisture. x Ensure that the temperature remains between the upper and lower limits during storage. Storage Pedelec S pedelec x If storing for more than months recharge the battery every three to six months depending on storage conditions. Charge the battery to around of its capacity again at these times. x Always disconnect the rechargeable battery from the charger and the charger from the voltage supply after charging. x When storing the rechargeable battery ensure that the poles do not short circuit. Cover the poles with masking tape if necessary Storing the pedelec S pedelec If the pedelec S pedelec will not be used for a prolonged period the following points must be noted with regard to storage x Clean the pedelec S pedelec see the Cleaning and maintenance chapter. x Protect the pedelec S pedelec against moisture dust and dirt during storage. x Store the pedelec S pedelec in a dry frost free place where it is protected against major fluctuations in temperature. x To prevent tyre deformation store the pedelec S pedelec hanging by its frame. Pedelec S pedelec Disposal Disposal. Cycle Do not dispose of your cycle in household waste. Take it to a municipal collection point or a recycling centre. Alternatively there are also collections organised by local councils and private organisa tions. Contact your local council about this or refer to postal information Electrical elements single use batteries and rechargeable batteries Pedelecs S pedelecs and bikes with electric shifting systems or electric damper systems must have all single use and re chargeable batteries removed first along with any detachable controls containing batteries. This means the rechargeable batteries from the drive system displays with built in re chargeable batteries rechargeable batteries for shifting or damper systems that are built into or onto the frame etc. Re movable displays with built in rechargeable batteries or displays that continue to offer an active display after removal from their brackets and do not appear to have a battery com partment on the back side must be disposed of completely. Only externally accessible bat tery compartments generally for button cell batteries may be opened. The display housing must not be opened to remove a fixed rechargeable battery. Fixed rechargeable batteries in displays are generally lithium ion batteries and therefore hazardous waste. They must not be disposed of in household waste and must be taken to a municipal collection point or a recycling centre instead. This also applies to replaced batteries which can no longer be used due to wear or a defect. Please also refer to the Safety notes Rechargeable battery safety notes chapter in the supplementary user manual Pedelec S Pedelec. Commercially available single use batteries can be taken to a municipal collection point or a recycling centre and can also placed in battery collection boxes which are available in vari ous shops or stores. After removing any single use or rechargeable batteries the remainder of the cycle is classed as waste electrical and electronic equipment and must be sent for recycling sepa rately. Your dealer the municipal collection point or a recycling centre can assist you here. Disposal Pedelec S pedelec. Electronic components and accessories Replaced or defective LED headlamps LED rear lamps or hub dynamos as well as accesso ries such as bike computers or navigation devices must also be disposed of separately. Take parts and devices of this kind to a municipal collection point or a recycling centre Packaging Any kind of packaging must be disposed of separately. Add cardboard and paperboard to the waste paper and foils in the recyclable waste collection or ask your dealer for disposal Tyres and inner tubes Tyres and inner tubes must not be disposed of in household waste. Ask your dealer whether they take care of collection and disposal or take these items to a recycling centre or municipal collection point Lubricants and care products Do not dispose of lubricants and care products in household waste into the sewer system or into the environment. They must be taken to a hazardous waste collection point. Also follow the notes included on the lubricant and care product packaging. Supplementary user manual Children s bikeChildren s bike Handlebar grips and handlebars Chain case Brake lever Seat tube Front brake Chain stays Tyre Seat stays Rim Stabiliser training wheel Spoke Rear wheel hub Front wheel hub Seat post clamp Valve Saddle Down tube Top tube Pedal Example illustrationChildren s bike Contents General notes Safety notes Residual risks Proper use Basics Notes on road use Notes on the brakes Before every ride Inspection instructions Before the first ride Stabilisers Fitting stabilisers Removing stabilisers General notes Children s bike General notes This user manual is a supplement and aimed at the child s parent or guardian. It assumes that you have read the Cycle user manual. Read the entire Cycle user manual carefully paying particular attention to the safety notes and notes on ad justment and operation before your child uses the children s bike. WARNING Lack of road knowledge. Risk of accident! x Explain to your child the regulations on road behaviour. x Explain to your child how to be defensive and careful on the road. x Only allow your child to use the children s bike on the road once they have understood the regulations on road behaviour. x Only allow your child to ride on the road when accompanied by a parent or guardian. WARNING Lack of knowledge about how to operate the children s bike. Risk of accident! x Explain to your child how to operate the children s bike. x Only allow your child to use the children s bike on the road once they can operate it safely. Children s bike General notes WARNING Component breakage due to overloading. Risk of accident and injury! x Explain to your child that the children s bike may only be used by one person and that other people must not be transported on the luggage carrier crossbar or handlebars. x Ensure that the maximum gross weight limit for the children s bike is not exceeded. WARNING Insufficient knowledge or ability. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not allow the children s bike to be used by children with re duced physical sensory or mental capabilities or with a lack of experience and expertise. x Do not allow children to carry out care and maintenance. x Do not allow young children to play with the packaging materi als particularly the packaging film. Children may become entan gled in it and suffocate or cut themselves. x Read the entire user manual and explain all the contents to your child. x Practice with your child how to ride on the road and only allow them to ride alone once you feel it is responsible to do so. x Regularly check your child s seating position and have adjustments made by a dealer if necessary. x Refer to the notes on minimum insertion depths for the saddle and handlebars see the Basic adjustments Saddle Minimum insertion depth and Basic adjustments Handlebars and handlebar stems Minimum insertion depth chapters in the cycle user manual. Safety notes Children s bike Safety notes WARNING Longer braking distance and reduced traction due to slippery or dirty roads. Risk of accident and injury! x Ensure that your child adapts their speed to suit the weather and road conditions. WARNING High risk of accident following incorrect or improper use of the chil dren s bike. Risk of accident! x Only allow your child to use the children s bike on the road if its equipment meets national road regulations. x Only allow your child to use the children s bike in compliance with national and regional road regulations. x Explain to your child the national and regional regulations on us ing footpaths bike paths and roads. WARNING Poor visibility due to incorrect clothing. Risk of accident and injury! x Only allow your child to ride on the road while wearing bright and conspicuous clothing e.g. with reflective elements. Children s bike Safety notes WARNING Lack of protective headgear. Risk of injury! x Only allow your child to use the children s bike if they are wear ing a suitable fitted helmet. x Have your dealer explain what helmets are suitable for your child. x Have your dealer show you how to use your child s helmet. WARNING Inattentiveness on the road. Risk of accident and injury! x Explain to your child that they must not get distracted by other activities while riding e.g. switching on retrofitted lighting. x Forbid your child from using mobile devices such as smart phones or MP players while riding. WARNING Malfunctions in the children s bike due to additions and alterations using incorrect accessories. Risk of accident and injury! x Have alterations to the children s bike carried out by your dealer only. x Only have accessories fitted that meet national road regula tions. x Ask your dealer about suitable accessories. Safety notes Children s bike WARNING Frame or front fork breakage due to improper use of the children s bike. Risk of accident and injury! x Explain to your child that they must not jump over ramps or mounds of earth with the children s bike. x Explain to your child that they must not ride the children s bike down slopes. x Explain to your child that they must not ride the children s bike through deep puddles or near water. x Explain to your child that they must not ride the children s bike through terrain that will make it excessively dirty. x Explain to your child that they must not ride the children s bike over stairs kerbs or other steps. WARNING Catches on the children s bike. Risk of accident and injury! x Only allow your child to use the child bike if your child wears tight leg clothing. x Make sure that items of clothing e.g. laces or ribbons cannot get caught in moving parts. Children s bike Residual risks Residual risks Even if all safety notes and warnings are observed using the children s bike still entails un foreseeable risks such as Distraction from the road due to childish curiosity Misjudgements by the child for example with regard to traction speed or their own riding ability Incorrect behaviour by other road users Unforeseeable road conditions e.g. slipperiness due to black ice Component breakage or failure due to unforeseeable material defects or material fatigue. Proper use Neither the manufacturer nor the dealer accept any liability for damage caused due to im proper or incorrect use. Warranty claims may be endangered and may expire if the vehicle is not used as intended. The children s bike is designed for use by one person with the seating position correctly adjusted to suit their height see the Basics Seating position chapter in the cycle user manual. Carrying additional people e.g. on the luggage carrier is not permitted. The maximum gross weight limit if applicable is marked on the frame of the children s bike as well as recorded on the data sheet provided by the dealer and must not be exceeded. Children s bikes that are not equipped for use on the road are designed solely for home use. For use on the road the children s bike must have or be retrofitted with the equipment nec essary to meet national and regional regulations. The children s bike is not designed for above average stress for example use at races and competitive events is deemed improper. The children s bike is not designed for use with a child seat. Proper use of the children s bike on the road requires the person using the bike to know un derstand and apply national and regional regulations. Proper use of the children s bike on the road requires the bike to meet national and regional regulations see the Safety Notes on road use chapter in the cycle user manual. Use the children s bike only as described in this user manual. Any other use is deemed im proper and may result in accidents injury or property damage. Basics Children s bike Basics This chapter contains notes on road use and information allowing the children s bike to be put into use Notes on road use The following applies to children s bikes that when purchased have equipment that is not permitted for road use If the children s bike is to be used on the road have the children s bike retrofitted with the necessary components. x Acquaint yourself with national and regional regulations on equipment for children s bikes before the first ride. For example Compulsory helmet use Compulsory use of reflective safety vests Brakes Lighting and reflectors Bell x Only allow your child to ride on the road if the equipment meets national and regional road regulations. x If necessary have the children s bike retrofitted with any necessary equipment prior to use on the road. x Explain to your child the national and regional regulations on equipment for chil dren s bikes. x If in doubt consult your dealer. x Acquaint yourself with national and regional road regulations. Children and young people are generally subject to different regulations than adults. x Explain the traffic code to your child along with how they should behave on the road. x Explain to your child the national and regional regulations on using Footpaths Bike paths Roads x Only allow your child to ride on the road alone if This is permitted by national and regional regulations. You are confident about your child using the road. x Explain to your child how to be defensive and careful on the road. x Teach your child to ride so as not to harm endanger impede or inconvenience anyone. Children s bike Basics x Only allow your child to ride the children s bike if they are wearing a suitable fitted helmet. Consult a dealer about choosing a suitable helmet. Many places offer courses for children. These courses teach your child how to ride a bike and how to behave on the road in a fun way. Laws and regulations can change at any time. Acquaint yourself with na tional and regional regulations on a regular basis and explain them to your child Notes on the brakes The children s bike is equipped with at least two independent brakes one for the front wheel and one for the rear wheel. One of these brakes or an additional brake may be a coaster brake. WARNING The braking behaviour of a rim brake changes in the wet. Risk of accident and injury! x Have your child keep off the road while they practice braking in the wet. x Explain to your child that they must ride slowly in the wet. Basics Children s bike. Before every ride The following points must be noted before every ride x Check the children s bike thoroughly for damage and excessive wear before your child uses it see the Basics Inspection instructions chapter. x Explain to your child that they must not use the children s bike if it is damaged Inspection instructions The following points must be noted before every ride x Check the condition of the frame and components. x Check all components for deformation cracks and discolouration. x Check whether the handlebars pedals and saddle are correctly fastened and adjusted see the Basic adjustments in the cycle user manual. x If your children s bike is equipped with a luggage carrier check whether the carrier is correctly fastened. x If your children s bike is suitable for a luggage carrier and is retrofitted with one check whether the carrier is correctly fastened. x Test the functionality of the brakes. x Operate the brake levers and coaster brake and listen for unusual noises. x Check that the children s bike is difficult or impossible to push with the brake applied so that the bike can safely be brought to a standstill while riding. x Check whether there is any brake pad grinding when the brake levers are re leased. x Test the functionality of the lighting and bell. x Switch on the lighting. Check whether the headlamp and rear lamp are lit. To do so turn the wheel where the dynamo is fitted or check the battery charge level if battery powered lighting has been retrofitted. x Check whether you hear a clear sound when you operate the bell. Children s bike Basics. Before the first ride WARNING Distraction of the child due to unexpected behaviour from the chil dren s bike e.g. when braking. Risk of accident and injury! x Only allow your child to use the children s bike on the road once they know how the bike behaves and are familiar with its oper ation. The dealer will fully assemble the children s bike and customise the handlebars saddle and brake levers for your child. x When you receive the children s bike check whether your child can ride it comfortably and safely and that all the adjustments fit your child. x Have adjustments carried out by a dealer only. x If you make adjustments yourself ask a dealer about the applicable torques and use a torque wrench. x If you make adjustments yourself check them properly and thoroughly before your child uses the children s bike. x Familiarise yourself with the children s bike before your child rides it for the first time and explain all the controls to your child. x Keeping off the road practice with your child so that they get accustomed to the han dling characteristics of the children s bike. x Practice with your child how to mount dismount and stop safely. x Have your child practice braking particularly using a coaster brake if available at low speed. x Have your child practice emergency braking. x Practice with your child how to indicate direction when making turns and how to look over their shoulder. x Only allow your child to ride the children s bike once you feel it is responsible to do so. Stabilisers Children s bike Stabilisers Stabilisers or training wheels are auxiliary wheels that support a child while they are learn ing to ride a bike. They prevent the children s bike from tipping over. x Assess whether your child needs stabilisers while learning to ride. x If your child needs stabilisers while learning to ride use the stabilisers supplied if applicable. x If no stabilisers are supplied contact your dealer about selecting and fitting suitable stabilisers Fitting stabilisers WARNING Incorrectly or poorly fitted stabilisers can cause malfunctions such as the rear wheel falling off. Risk of accident and injury! x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required to fit the stabilisers contact your dealer. Depending on the model suitable stabilisers may be supplied with the children s bike. The enclosed stabilisers should be used if stabilisers are required. Care is required when fitting the stabilisers so that they serve their purpose correctly and safely. x If stabilisers are not supplied ensure that they are purchased to fit the children s bike. The bolts on the rear wheel of the children s bike must be long enough that the stabi lisers can be securely fastened on both sides. x Consult your dealer about suitable stabilisers if necessary. x Refer to information from the manufacturer about fitting stabilisers Completely unscrew the cap nuts from both sides of the axle by turning them anti clockwise Remove the attached hub axle washer from the axle. Stabilisers often consist of several parts. Children s bike Stabilisers. Assemble them as described in the man ufacturer s instructions Attach the first assembled stabiliser to the axle of the children s bike push the hub axle washer on to the axle and tighten the cap nut again observing the applicable torque see Illustr. Fitting a stabiliser Attach the second assembled stabiliser to the axle of the children s bike push the hub axle washer on to the axle and tighten the cap nut again observing the applicable torque see Illustr. Fitting a Illustr. Fitting a stabiliser example stabiliser. Rear wheel axle x When tightening the cap nut ensure Hub axle washer that the rear wheel forms a straight Cap nut line with the frame and front wheel. Stabiliser training wheel x When tightening the cap nut ensure that the chain is still tensioned. The stabilisers are height adjustable. x Check where the slotted holes for this purpose are positioned on the stabilisers that you installed. Refer to the fitting information enclosed by the manufacturer. Both stabilisers should be the same distance from the ground. When holding the children s bike straight the stabilisers should not touch the ground Removing stabilisers. Turn both cap nuts until you can remove them from the axle One by one remove the hub axle washers and the stabilisers from the axle Push the hub axle washers onto the axle and tighten the cap nuts observing the applicable torque When tightening the cap nut ensure that the rear wheel forms a straight line with the frame and front wheel When tightening the cap nut ensure that the chain is still tensioned. Stabilisers Children s bike User manual Balance bikeBalance bike Handlebar grips and handlebars Seat tube Tyre Wheel hub with cap nut Rim Seat post clamp Spoke Saddle Valve Example illustration Balance bike Contents Basics Applicability Reading and storing the user manual Notes on screw turning directions Notes on torques Safety notes Residual risks Proper use Age rating Use A note on braking Helmet Before every ride Inspection instructions Before the first ride After a fall Basic adjustments Adjusting the saddle Checking and adjusting the tyre pressure Reducing the tyre pressure Cleaning Cleaning products required Cleaning the balance bike Maintenance Inspection intervals Checking the screw joints Checking the frame and front fork Balance bike. Checking the saddle Checking the handlebars Checking the front wheel and rear wheel Checking the rims and spokes Checking the tyres Checking the safety elements Storage Disposal Balance bike Packaging Tyres and inner tubes Lubricants and care products Declaration of conformity Balance bike Basics Basics. Applicability This user manual applies to balance bikes which are not approved for use on the road. The balance bike is marked with the following cycle category symbol. Symbol Cycle category Use balance bike Only for use under adult supervision. Not suitable for use on the road. Maximum gross weight limit kg lbs Reading and storing the user manual This user manual contains important information about using the balance bike and is aimed at parents and guardians. Read all the warnings and notes in this user manual carefully before allowing your child to use the balance bike and explain all the contents to your child. Only allow your child to use the balance bike once you have read and understood this user manual. Keep the user manual to hand so that it is available at all times. If passing the bal ance bike on to a third party include the user manual along with it Notes on screw turning directions NOTE Material damage due to handling screw joints incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Observe the turning direction of screws thru axles and nuts. x Tighten screws thru axles and nuts by turning them clockwise. x Loosen screws thru axles and nuts by turning them anticlockwise. In the event of any deviation from this rule the change in turning direction will be indicated in the respective chapter. Refer to the relevant notes. Basics Balance bike. Notes on torques WARNING Material fatigue due to tightening screw joints incorrectly. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not allow your child to use the balance bike if you find any loose screw joints. x Screw joints must be properly tightened with a torque wrench. x Screw joints must be tightened using the correct torques. To correctly tighten the screw joints the applicable torques must be observed. This requires a torque wrench with an appropriate adjustment range. x If you have no experience with using torque wrenches or do not own a suitable torque wrench have the screw joints checked by your dealer. The correct torque for a screw joint is dependent on the material and diameter of the screw as well as the material and design of the component. x If tightening screw joints check whether the balance bike is equipped with aluminium components see the specifications data sheet provided by the dealer. x Observe the specific torques for aluminium components. Individual components on the balance bike are labelled with torque specifications or inser tion depth markings. x Follow these specifications and markings. Balance bike Safety notes Safety notes WARNING Entanglement and suffocation or injury due to playing with packag ing material. Risk of suffocation and injury! x Do not allow young children to play with the packaging materi als particularly the packaging film. Children may become entan gled in it and suffocate or cut themselves. WARNING Swallowing small parts. Risk of suffocation! x Do not allow your child to play with small parts that could be swallowed. WARNING Danger for the child due to using the balance bike without supervi sion. Risk of accident and injury! x Supervise your child when they are playing with the balance bike. x Only allow your child to ride while wearing bright and conspicu ous clothing e.g. with reflective elements. x Do not allow your child to ride near stairs kerbs slopes or water. x Do not allow your child to ride in areas with traffic e.g. parking facilities or private courtyards. Safety notes Balance bike WARNING Danger for the child due to operating the balance bike incorrectly. Risk of accident and injury! x Explain to your child how to operate the balance bike. x Teach your child about the dangers e.g. falls and collisions which could arise through using the balance bike. x Practice with your child how to use the balance bike so as to prevent falls or collisions. WARNING Longer braking distance and reduced traction due to slippery or dirty roads. Risk of accident and injury! x Explain to your child that they must adapt their riding style and speed to suit the weather and road conditions. x Ensure that your child adapts their riding style and speed to suit the weather and road conditions. WARNING Injury due to lack of or incorrect footwear. Risk of accident and injury! x Only allow your child to use the balance bike when they are wearing closed toe non slip shoes with hard soles. Balance bike Safety notes WARNING Risk of injury due to falling without a helmet or protective gear. Risk of injury! x Only allow your child to use the balance bike when they are wearing a suitable fitted helmet. x Only allow your child to use the balance bike when they are wearing protectors such as elbow and knee pads. x Only allow your child to use the balance bike when they are wearing long and if necessary padded clothing. WARNING Danger for the child due to using the balance bike on unsuitable ground. Risk of accident and injury! x Only allow your child to ride on clean dry and even ground. x Do not allow your child to play on cross country terrain or on steep paths. WARNING Pinch points on the balance bike. Risk of accident and injury! x Only allow your child to use the balance bike when they are wearing close fitting clothing on their legs. x Ensure that items of clothing such as laces or belts cannot be come entangled in moving parts. Residual risks Balance bike WARNING Missing safety elements. Risk of injury! x Before every ride check that all safety elements such as protec tive caps on nuts the bumpers on the handlebar stem and the ends of the handlebar grips are properly fitted and undamaged. WARNING Malfunction of the balance bike due to improper additions or altera tions to the bike or incorrect accessories. Risk of accident and injury! x Have your dealer carry out alterations to the balance bike. x Only have original accessories fitted. x Do not have any accessories with sharp edges fitted. Residual risks Even if all safety notes and warnings are observed using the balance bike still entails un foreseeable risks such as The child being distracted due to childish curiosity and interest in their surroundings Overestimation of the child s riding ability Incorrect behaviour by other road users Unforeseeable road conditions e.g. slipperiness due to black ice Component breakage or failure due to unforeseeable material defects or material fatigue. x Check the balance bike for material defects or fatigue before every ride. x Have the balance bike checked by your dealer for damage and breakage after a fall or accident. Balance bike Proper use Proper use Neither the manufacturer nor the dealer accept any liability for damage caused due to im proper or incorrect use. Warranty claims may be endangered and may expire if the vehicle is not used as intended. The balance bike is designed for private use in a suitable play area. The balance bike is designed for private use by children aged years and up on private property. The maximum gross weight limit is marked on the frame of the balance bike as well as recorded on the specifications data sheet provided by the dealer and must not be exceeded. The balance bike is not considered a cycle for traffic code purposes. The balance bike is designed for use by a single child on surfaced ground. The balance bike is not designed for the following accessories to be fitted or used Luggage carrier Child seat Child trailer The child may only use the balance bike as described in this user manual. Any other use is deemed improper and may result in serious injury or property damage. Age rating Please note the balance bike is not designed for children under years of age. Use This chapter contains information about basic adjustments to the balance bike and infor mation about how to put the balance bike into use A note on braking The balance bike does not have a brake. x Explain to your child how they can brake and stop safely using their feet. Use Balance bike. Helmet A helmet protects the head in the event of a fall or accident. x Only allow your child to use the balance bike when they are wearing a suitable fitted helmet. x Consult your dealer when choosing a suitable helmet. x Have your dealer explain how to correctly adjust the helmet Before every ride WARNING Excessive wear or loosened screw joints due to movement and vi bration. Risk of accident and injury! x Have your dealer show you how to check for excessive wear or loosened screw joints. x Check the balance bike according to the inspection instructions before every ride. x Only allow your child to use the balance bike if you do not find any damage. x Only allow your child to use the balance bike if there is no exces sive wear and all screw joints are tight. x Check the balance bike for damage and excessive wear before every ride see the Use Inspection instructions chapter. x Regularly check your child s seating position and have adjustments made by your dealer if necessary. Balance bike Use. Inspection instructions The inspection instructions assume that all the contents of the user manual have been read understood and observed. x Check the condition of the frame and all components. x Check all components for deformation cracks and discolouration. x Check whether all components are correctly fastened and aligned. x Check safety elements such as protective caps for damage. x Your child may only use the balance bike once you have identified all the components as being functional. x If you find a non functional component have it repaired by your dealer Before the first ride WARNING Component or balance bike failure due to changes in the spokes or screw joints after the first few kilometres. Risk of accident and injury! x Have the balance bike serviced regularly by your dealer. Observe the specified inspection intervals. The balance bike has been fully assembled and adjusted by the dealer and is ready to ride. Notes on inspection intervals can be found in the Maintenance chapter. x Familiarise yourself with the balance bike before your child uses it. x Explain to your child how to use the balance bike. x Practice with your child how to mount and dismount. x Have your child practice braking with their feet at low speed see the Use A note on braking chapter. Use Balance bike. After a fall WARNING Damage to components due to a fall. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not straighten deformed components. x Have deformed or damaged components replaced by your deal er immediately. x If you find or suspect that the balance bike is damaged do not use it. x Check all components after minor falls e.g. when the balance bike has fallen over see the Maintenance chapter. x Have damage repaired by your dealer. Balance bike Basic adjustments Basic adjustments WARNING Material breakage or component damage due to a lack of knowl edge when making adjustments. Risk of accident and injury! x Have balance bike components adjusted by your dealer. x Do not make any adjustments to balance bike components if you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required. WARNING Material fatigue and material breakage due to tightening screw joints incorrectly. Risk of accident and injury! x Have your dealer tighten loose screw joints. x Loose screw joints must be properly tightened to the correct torque using a torque wrench. The dealer will fully assemble the balance bike and adjust the saddle to your child s height. x When you receive the balance bike check whether your child can ride it comfortably and safely and that the adjustments fit your child. x If you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required have adjustments carried out by your dealer. x If you make adjustments yourself ask your dealer about the applicable torques and use a torque wrench. x If you make adjustments yourself check them properly and thoroughly before you allow your child to use the balance bike. Basic adjustments Balance bike. Adjusting the saddle WARNING Material breakage or damage to the seat post due to a lack of knowledge when making adjustments. Risk of accident and injury! x Have the seat post adjusted by your dealer. x Do not adjust the seat post yourself if you lack the necessary expertise and the tools required. x If you adjust the seat post yourself ensure that the marking on the post is not visible. The saddle height must be adjusted so that the balance bike is adapted to suit the size of the child Loosen the bolt in the seat post clamp until the seat post can be moved Adjust the saddle height so that your child can put both feet flat on the ground when sitting on the saddle Make sure that the marking on the seat post is not visible see Illustr. Seat post marking Twist the saddle so that the frame and saddle form a straight line Tighten the bolt observing applicable torques see the Basics Notes on Illustr. Seat post marking example torques chapter. Balance bike Basic adjustments. Checking and adjusting the tyre pressure WARNING Tyre blow out or damage due to incorrect tyre pressure. Risk of damage! x Use a pump with a pressure display to inflate the tyres. x Only inflate the tyres to the permitted tyre pressure. x Do not allow your child to ride with damaged cracked or exces sively worn tyres. x Have your dealer explain how to check and adjust the tyre pres sure if necessary. The tyre pressure is crucial to the rolling resistance and suspension of the balance bike. Tyre pressure figures may be given in psi pounds per square inch kPa kilopascals or bar depending on the manufacturer Read the maximum permitted tyre pressure on the sidewall of the balance bike tyre see Illustr. Tyre with tyre size specification. X psi kPa B a r Illustr. Tyre with tyre size specification example. To adjust the tyre pressure or inflate the tyre unscrew the protective cap from the valve Place an air pressure gauge or a pump with a pressure display onto the valve and read off the tyre pressure. x If the tyre pressure is too low inflate the tyre with a pump. x If the tyre pressure is too high let air out of the tyre see the Basic adjustments Reducing the tyre pressure chapter. Basic adjustments Balance bike. Choose a tyre pressure that is suitable for your child s weight up to the upper limit specified on the tyre Screw the protective cap hand tight onto the valve after adjusting the tyre pressure After adjusting the tyre pressure check whether the lower knurled nut is firmly in place and hand tighten if necessary Reducing the tyre pressure The tyre pressure can be reduced by letting air out of the inner tube via the valve. x To reduce the tyre pressure remove the protective cap and open the valve until air escapes. x Close the valve after reducing the tyre pressure and hand tighten the protective cap. Balance bike Cleaning Cleaning. Cleaning products required The following can be used for cleaning the balance bike Clean cloths Mild lukewarm soapy water A soft cleaning sponge or a cleaning cloth A soft brush Care products and preservers x Consult your dealer about suitable care products and preservers Cleaning the balance bike WARNING Insufficient knowledge or ability. Risk of accident and injury! x Do not allow the children s bike to be used by children with re duced physical sensory or mental capabilities or with a lack of experience and expertise. x Do not allow children to carry out cleaning care and mainte nance alone. WARNING Pinching and crushing of body parts due to lack of knowledge or in correct behaviour during cleaning. Risk of injury! x Ensure that you keep your fingers and hands away from moving components. x Ensure that your fingers and hands do not get caught. Cleaning Balance bike NOTE Cleaning the balance bike incorrectly. Risk of damage! x Do not use abrasive cleaning products. x Do not use running water. x Do not use sharp or metallic cleaning tools. x Do not use a high pressure washer or electrical cleaning devices. The following points must be noted with regard to cleaning the balance bike x Clean the balance bike regularly even if it is only slightly dirty. x Wipe all surfaces and components with a damp cloth. x Use mild soapy water to moisten the cloth. x Wipe all surfaces and components dry after cleaning. x Preserve all paintwork and metallic surfaces on the frame at least every six months. x Contact your dealer if you have any questions about suitable cleaning products. Balance bike Maintenance WARNING Malfunctioning components due to incorrect or inadequate mainte nance. Risk of injury! x Only carry out maintenance yourself if you have the necessary expertise and the tools required. x Have the balance bike maintained by your dealer at least once a year. WARNING Material fatigue and material breakage due to tightening screw joints incorrectly. Risk of accident and injury! x Have your dealer tighten loose screw joints. x Loose screw joints must be properly tightened to the correct torque using a torque wrench. WARNING Pinching and crushing of body parts due to lack of knowledge or in correct behaviour during maintenance. Risk of injury! x Ensure that you keep your fingers away from moving compo nents. x Ensure that your fingers do not get caught. x Wear protective gloves. Balance bike The balance bike must be serviced regularly. x Carry out the following maintenance once a month or after a fall. x If you find any damage during maintenance do not allow your child to continue using the balance bike and have the bike checked or repaired by your dealer. x Have your dealer document all maintenance and repairs that they carry out. x If you carry out maintenance work yourself ask your dealer about the applicable tor ques and use a torque wrench. x If you carry out maintenance work yourself check the balance bike thoroughly after the maintenance before you allow your child to use the bike Inspection intervals x Have your dealer inspect the balance bike at the following intervals Inspection intervals Inspection Hours of operation Duration of use st Inspection after hours of operation or after months nd Inspection after hours of operation or after one year Each subse after a further hours of oper after a further year quent inspection ation or whichever is the earliest Your balance bike has a variety of parts that require particular attention especially with regard to their exposure to dirt dust or moisture or simply because of their relevance to safety. It is therefore in your own interest to observe the inspection intervals. Balance bike. Checking the screw joints x Lift the balance bike around cm and carefully let it bounce on the ground. Listen for unusual noises. x If you hear unusual noises tighten the relevant screw joints see the Basics Notes on torques chapter. x Have loose screw joints tightened by your dealer if you lack the necessary exper tise or the tools required Checking the frame and front fork x Check the frame and front fork for deformation cracks or discolouration visual in spection. x If the frame or the front fork is deformed cracked or discoloured have it checked by your dealer immediately and do not allow your child to ride the balance bike Checking the saddle x Check whether the saddle can be twisted. x If you can twist the saddle adjust the seat post clamp see the Basic adjust ments Adjusting the saddle chapter Checking the handlebars x Check whether the handlebars are aligned perpendicularly to the front wheel see Illustr. Correct handlebar alignment. x Have the handlebars adjusted by your dealer if they are not perpendicular to the front wheel. Illustr. Correct handlebar alignment example Balance bike x Fix the front wheel in place to prevent it twisting sideways by placing it in a bike rack for example and check whether the handlebars can be turned relative to the front wheel. x If you can twist the handlebars have them or the handlebar stem adjusted by your dealer. x Check whether the handlebars can be moved up and down. x If you detect play in the head tube or handlebars when pulling the handlebars up and down have the head tube or handlebars adjusted by your dealer. x Check the handlebars and handlebar stem for cracks deformation or discolouration visual inspection. x If the handlebars or handlebar stem are cracked deformed or discoloured have them checked by your dealer immediately and do not allow your child to ride the balance bike Checking the front wheel and rear wheel. Hold the balance bike firmly by the front fork or frame Try to move the front or rear wheel sideways. Check whether the wheel nuts move as you do so. x If the wheel nuts move tighten them see the Basics Notes on torques chap ter Lift the balance bike and turn the front or rear wheel. Check whether the front or rear wheel swings sideways or outwards. x If the front or rear wheel swings sideways or outwards do not use the balance bike and have the wheel checked by your dealer. Balance bike. Checking the rims and spokes. Check the front and rear rims for cracks deformation or discolouration visual inspec tion. x If a rim is cracked deformed or discoloured do not allow your child to ride the balance bike Squeeze the spokes together gently with your thumb and fingers checking whether the tension is the same for all spokes. x If the tension varies or spokes are loose have the spokes tensioned by your dealer. Alternatively you can run a wooden or plastic rod across the spokes and lis ten for differences in sound Checking the tyres. Check whether the tyre pressure is correct see the Basic adjustments Checking and adjusting the tyre pressure chapter Check the tyres for cracks and damage from foreign bodies Check whether you can clearly feel the tyre tread. x If a tyre is cracked or damaged or the tread depth is too low have the tyre re placed by your dealer and do not let your child ride the balance bike Check whether the valves are firmly in place and hand tighten the lower knurled nut if necessary by turning it clockwise Check whether the valves have a protective cap. x If the protective cap is missing replace it Checking the safety elements x Check that the safety elements such as protective caps over nuts or on the handle bars are in place and undamaged. x If safety elements are missing or damaged have them replaced by your dealer. Storage Balance bike Storage If the balance bike will not be used for a prolonged period the following points must be not ed with regard to storage x Clean the balance bike see the Cleaning chapter. x Store the balance bike in a dry frost free place where it is protected against major fluctuations in temperature. x To prevent tyre deformation store the balance bike hanging by its frame. Balance bike Disposal Disposal. Balance bike Do not dispose of your balance bike in household waste. Take it to a municipal collection point or a recycling centre. Alternatively there are also collections organised by local councils and private organisa tions. Contact your local council about this or refer to postal information Packaging Any kind of packaging must be disposed of separately. Add cardboard and paperboard to the waste paper and foils in the recyclable waste collection or ask your dealer for disposal Tyres and inner tubes Tyres and inner tubes must not be disposed of in household waste. Ask your dealer whether they take care of collection and disposal or take these items to a recycling centre or municipal collection point Lubricants and care products Do not dispose of lubricants and care products in household waste into the sewer system or into the environment. They must be taken to a hazardous waste collection point. Also follow the notes included on the packaging of such products. Declaration of conformity You can find the declaration of conformity enclosed with your balance bike. With the dec laration of conformity the manufacturer of your balance bike confirms that the product meets all requirements and other relevant provisions in standard EN and directive EC. Glossary Term in this original Replaces the following Explanatory alternative operating manual term based on official name standards Aero handlebars Aerodynamic extension Triathlon handlebars time DIN EN ISO trial handlebars Fork ends Front fork ends DIN EN Schrader valve SV Schrader valve American valve DIN EN Brake pad Brake block DIN EN Brake force modulator Brake force modulator Power modulator DIN EN ISO Brake cable Inner cable DIN EN and DIN EN ISO Cycle Bikes racing bikes pedelecs S pedelecs children s bikes and balance bikes are referred to collectively as cycles. Cycle passport see cycle Bike passport Pinch point Place where body parts or items of clothing can get caught Reaction arm Brake arm DIN EN Guarantee Liability for material defects Helmet Bike helmet Bike helmets and helmets DIN EN ISO that are suitable for riding a suitable helmet S pedelec pedelec S pedelec.Term in this original Replaces the following Explanatory alternative operating manual term based on official name standards Chainring Chainwheel DIN EN Balance bike Toy bike EN MTB MTB all terrain bike mountain bike Pedelec EPAC DIN EN EPAC e bike pedelec electric bike Belt Drive belt DIN EN ISO Seat post Seat pillar Shift cable Cable DIN EN Pulley Drive pulley DIN EN ISO Rear lamp Rear light Screw joint Bolted joint DIN EN ISO S pedelec L e directive EC or S EPAC speed e bike L e B regulation pedelec Dunlop valve DV Woods valve English or Dutch valve DIN EN Luggage system carrier Luggage carrier DIN EN Basis European standardsCycle passport Cycle Individual cycle characteristics Brand model Model year Manufacturer art. no Frame shape Wheel and frame size Frame number If applicable key number If applicable VIN S pedelec WWS as noted on the cycle s data sheet X Aluminium components Carbon components Frame Fork Handlebars Stem Seat post Crank Other components made from aluminium carbon rim saddle etc. Other Fitting child seats permitted not permitted Fitting bike trailers permitted not permitted Cycle meets national road regulations Yes No Other remarks deviations from standard equipment accessories defects etc. Cycle condition new used distance travelled in km mi Cycle Handover certificate Handover certificate The cycle has been delivered complete together with the following cross or enter number as appropriate Rechargeable battery key pedelec S pedelec Bike lock key if different Accell Group standard manual The data sheet containing the technical specifications for the cycle has been supplied If applicable additional component instructions for pedelecs If applicable pedelec drive system quick start guide with reference to the complete online manual for S pedelecs EC certificate of conformity for S pedelecs If applicable S pedelec drive system manual All features of the cycle have been explained The cycle has been delivered ready to ride The cycle has been delivered pre assembled with instructions given on making it ready to ride Purchase or delivery date Purchase price Buyer First and last name Address Email Tel. Stamp Dealer Customer Location date dealer signature Location date signatureInspection intervals Cycle st inspection km mi hours of operation months Inspection tasks Date dealer stamp and signature nd inspection km mi hours of operation year Inspection tasks Date dealer stamp and signature rd inspection km mi hours of operation years Inspection tasks Date dealer stamp and signatureCycle Inspection intervals th inspection km mi hours of operation years Inspection tasks Date dealer stamp and signature th inspection km mi hours of operation years Inspection tasks Date dealer stamp and signature th inspection km mi hours of operation years Inspection tasks Date dealer stamp and signatureAccell Group original operating manual LANGUAGE ENGLISH ITEM NUMBER EDITION Copyright The text images and information in these documents are protected under the copyright of Accell Group N.V. EDITION No translation reprinting reproduction or other commercial use such as on electronic media even in part is permitted without prior written consent from Accell Group N.V. Accell Group N.V. Industrieweg AR Heerenveen The Netherlands tel www. accell group.com