Cyan Magenta Jaune Noir Noir texte Cyan Magenta Jaune Noir Noir texte Renault MEGANE Vehicle user manualCyan Magenta Jaune Noir Noir texte Cyan Magenta Jaune Noir Noir texte Castrol exclusive Renault partner Benefit from cutting edge technology born out of competition to ensure the performance and longevity of your Renault thanks to wide range of engine lubricants developed specially by Renault and Castrol. renault.com Renault recommends Sans titre Welcome to your new vehicle This driver s handbook contains the information necessary for you to familiarise yourself with your vehicle to use it to its best advantage and to benefit fully from the all the functions and the technical developments it incorporates. to ensure that it always gives the best performance by following the simple but comprehensive advice concerning regular main tenance. to enable you to deal quickly with minor faults not requiring specialist attention. It is well worth taking a few minutes to read this handbook to familiarise yourself with the information and guidelines it contains about the vehicle and its functions and new features. If certain points are still unclear our Network technicians will be only too pleased to provide you with any additional information. To help you you will find the following symbols and These appear in the vehicle and indicate that you should consult the manual for detailed information and o r limits on operations with respect to your vehicle s equipment. anywhere in the manual indicates a transfer to a page. anywhere in the manual indicates a hazard danger or a safety recommendation. The descriptions of the models given in this handbook are based on the technical specifications at the time of writing. This hand book covers all items of equipment both standard and optional available for these models but whether or not these are fitted to the vehicle depends on the version options selected and the country where the vehicle is sold. This handbook may also contain information about items of equipment to be introduced later in the model year. The diagrams in the user manual are provided as examples. Enjoy driving your new vehicle. Translated from French. Copying or translation in part or in full is forbidden unless prior written permission has been obtained from the car manufacturer ENG UD Bienvenue JFC Renault welcome aboard your vehicle current page information and general advice welcome aboard your vehicle current page. ENG UD Filler NU BFB Renault C O N T E N T S Sections Getting to know your vehicle Driving Your comfort Maintenance Practical advice Technical specifications Alphabetical index. ENG UD Sommaire G n ral X C S X L X C G X H X B X B K X J F R X J X B C E EXTERIOR Rear view mirrors. Electric windows. Windscreen wipers. and. Demisting. and. Key Remote control. Map. Locking unlocking the doors. Bodywork maintenance. Lights operation. Lights replacement. Tyres. L Filling with fuel ENG UD L ext rieur BFB KFB Renault access vehicle current page lighting exterior current page windows current page tyres current page fuel filler cap current page rear view mirrors current page PASSENGER COMPARTMENT Adjusting your driving po Passenger compartment storage fit sition. tings. Rear bench seat. Rear headrests. Front seats. and. Front headrests. Child safety. Luggage compartment stor age fittings ENG UD L habitacle BFB KFB Renault driving position settings current page seats current page storage organisation current page child safety current page children current page DRIVER S POSITION Trip computer controls. Instrument panel. Exterior lighting. Multimedia screen. Cruise control. Heating Air conditioning system. Cruise control adaptive. Heated seat s. and Speed limiter Bonnet release. Gearstick. Steering wheel adjust ment. Parking brake. Key ignition switch. Engine start stop button ENG UD Le poste de conduite BFB KFB Renault driver s position current page dashboard current page instrument panel current page controls current page DRIVING AIDS ABS anti lock braking system Speed limiter. ESC electronic stability control Braking assistance Detection of road signs. Hill start assistance. Cruise control. Lane departure warning. Adaptive cruise control. Lane Keeping Assist. Parking distance control. Active emergency braking Reversing camera Blind spot warning. Assisted parking. Safe distance alert. Stop and Start. Tyre pressure monitoring system ENG UD Les aides la conduite BFB KFB Renault driving aids current page driver assistance current page driving current page SAFETY ON BOARD Front Airbags. Inhibiting the front passen Curtain Airbags. ger airbag. Side Airbags. Seat belts ENG UD La s curit bord BFB KFB Renault airbags current page seat belts current page IDENTIFYING A VEHICLE LABELS Review of a vehicle identification number. Vehicle identification plate. Engine identification plate. Tyre pressure labels ENG UD L identification du v hicule BFB KFB Renault vehicle identification up to the end of the DU vehicle identification plates up to the end of the DU tyre pressure up to the end of the DU THE ENGINE COMPARTMENT routine maintenance Coolant level. Brake fluid. Windscreen washer fluid. Engine oil filler cap. Battery. Engine oil dipstick. Opening the bonnet ENG UD Le compartiment moteur BFB KFB Renault levels current page battery current page BREAKDOWN RECOVERY Replacing windscreen wiper Puncture blade s. Tools. Emergency spare wheel. Changing a wheel Replacing headlight bulbs Front towing point. Replacing the rear screen wiper blade. Fuses. Replacing rear light bulbs. Rear towing point ENG UD Les d pannages BFB KFB Renault breakdown recovery current page wiper blades current page puncture current page fuses current page towing current page. ENG UD Filler NU BFB Renault Section Getting to know your vehicle Key radio frequency remote control general information use deadlocking Card general information use deadlocking Locking unlocking the doors Opening and closing the doors Automatic locking when driving Headrests Seats Steering wheel Seat belts Additional methods of restraint in addition to the front seat belts to the rear seat belts side protection Child safety General information choosing a child seat mounting fitting a child seat general information Child seats attachment by seat belt or by Isofix system deactivating activating the front passenger airbag Audible and visual signals Driving position Instrument panel trip computer vehicle settings customisation menu Power assisted steering Clock and outdoor temperature Rear view mirrors Headlight beam adjustment Exterior lighting and signals Washers wipers Fuel tank filling with fuel Reagent tank ENG UD Sommaire BFB KFB Renault KEY RADIO FREQUENCY REMOTE CONTROL general information Driver s responsibility when parking or stopping the vehicle Never leave an animal child or adult who is not self suffi cient alone on your vehicle even for a short time. They may pose a risk to themselves or to others by starting the engine Locks all the opening elements. activating equipment such as the Unlocks all the opening elements. electric windows or locking the doors. Ignition and front door key. Also in hot and or sunny weather Locking unlocking the boot only. please remember that the tempera Remote control with switchblade ture inside the passenger compart key ment increases very quickly. Locking unlocking using the switch Advice RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS blade key. To release the insert from Avoid leaving the remote control in INJURY. its housing press button it comes hot cold or humid areas. out automatically. Press button and guide the insert back into its housing. The key must not be used for any function other than those described in the handbook removing the cap from a bottle etc ENG UD Cl s T l commande radiofr quence g n ralit BFB KFB Renault Key radio frequency remote control general information use deadlocking keys up to the end of the DU central door locking up to the end of the DU remote control door locking unit up to the end of the DU radio frequency remote control key use up to the end of the DU tailgate up to the end of the DU KEY RADIO FREQUENCY REMOTE CONTROL general information Radio frequency remote control operating range This varies according to the surround ings take care not to lock or unlock the doors by inadvertently pressing the but tons on the remote control. Note if a door or the boot is open or not properly shut locking is not carried out. A beep sounds and the hazard warning Replacement and additional keys lights and side repeaters do not flash. or remote controls. Interference You must only contact an approved Interference by factors in the immediate dealer vicinity external installations or the use If you need to replace a key it will of equipment operating on the same be necessary to take the vehicle frequency as the remote control may and all of its keys to an approved affect the operation of the remote con Dealer in order to initialise the trol. system. Depending on the vehicle you have the option of using up to four remote controls. Remote control unit failure Make sure that the correct battery type is being used and that the battery is in good condition and in serted correctly. These batteries have a service life of approximately two years. How to change the battery ENG UD Cl s T l commande radiofr quence g n ralit BFB KFB Renault RADIO FREQUENCY REMOTE CONTROL UNIT use The remote control A can be used to Unlocking the doors A lock or unlock the doors and boot. Pressing button unlocks the doors It is powered by a battery which can be and tailgate. replaced Unlocking is indicated by one flash of the hazard warning lights and the indi Locking the doors cator lights. Press locking button. Note with the ignition on and the The side indicator lights and hazard engine running. buttons on the warning lights flash twice to indicate remote control are not activated. that the doors have been locked. Pressing the button twice locks the vehicle and enables the closure of the front rear windows and sunroof de pending on the vehicle. Note if a door or the boot is open or not Locking unlocking only the properly shut locking is not carried out. boot A beep sounds and the hazard warning Press the button to lock unlock the lights and side repeaters do not flash. boot only. Driver s responsibility when parking or stopping the vehicle Never leave an animal child or adult who is not self sufficient alone on your vehicle even for a short time. They may pose a risk to themselves or to others by starting the engine activating equipment such as the electric windows or locking the doors. Also in hot and or sunny weather please remember that the temperature inside the passenger compartment increases very quickly. Depending on the vehicle the door mirrors fold in out automatically RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS INJURY. when the vehicle is locked unlocked ENG UD Cl s t l commande radiofr quence utilisation BFB KFB Renault doors tailgate up to the end of the DU locking the doors up to the end of the DU keys up to the end of the DU remote control door locking unit up to the end of the DU radio frequency remote control key use up to the end of the DU RADIO FREQUENCY REMOTE CONTROL UNIT deadlocking If the vehicle is equipped with a dead locking function this allows you to lock the opening elements and to prevent the doors from being unlocked using the interior handles for example by breaking the window and then trying to open the door from the inside. To do this press button twice in quick succession. Locking is confirmed by two slow flashes followed by three quick flashes of the hazard warning lights and side repeaters. Depending on the vehicle the door mir rors fold in automatically when the vehi cle is locked Never use deadlocking if someone is still inside the vehicle ENG UD T l commande radio fr quence super condamnation BFB XFA Renault keys up to the end of the DU deadlocking the doors up to the end of the DU central door locking up to the end of the DU CARD general information The card is used for Card operating range locking unlocking the doors and tail This varies according to the surround gate doors tailgate and the fuel ings. It is important to make sure when filler flap see the following pages handling the card that you do not lock switching on the vehicle lighting re or unlock the doors by inadvertently motely refer to the following pages pressing the buttons. automatic remote closing of the elec Note if a door or the boot is open or not tric windows. and depending properly shut locking is not carried out. on the vehicle the sunroof. A beep sounds and the hazard warning starting the engine lights and side repeaters do not flash. Battery life Interference Make sure that the correct battery type Interference by factors in the immediate is being used and that the battery is in vicinity external installations or the use good condition and inserted correctly. Unlocking the doors and tailgate. of equipment operating on the same Its service life is approximately two frequency as the card may disrupt its Locking all doors and tailgate. years it should be replaced when the operation. Locking unlocking the boot only. message Keycard Battery Low ap pears on the instrument panel Switching on the lighting remotely. When the battery is flat you can still lock unlock and start your vehicle ENG UD Cartes RENAULT g n ralit s BFB KFB Renault Card general information use deadlocking locking the doors map up to the end of the DU use emergency key up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU child safety current page children safety current page doors tailgate up to the end of the DU tailgate up to the end of the DU tailgate up to the end of the DU unlocking the doors up to the end of the DU central door locking up to the end of the DU closing the doors up to the end of the DU daytime running lights up to the end of the DU CARD general information Advice Avoid leaving the card in hot cold or Driver s responsibility humid areas. when parking or stopping Do not keep the card in a place the vehicle where it could be bent or dam Never leave an animal aged accidentally such as in a back child or adult who is not self suffi pocket of a garment. cient alone in your vehicle even for a short time. Distance lighting function They may pose a risk to themselves or to others by starting the engine Pressing button switches on the activating equipment such as the dipped beam headlights and the exte electric windows or locking the rior lighting for approximately sec doors for example. onds. This can be used for example Replacement need for an to identify the vehicle from a distance additional card Also in hot and or sunny weather when parked in a car park. please remember that the tempera If you lose your card or require an ture inside the passenger compart Pressing and holding the button for other you can obtain one from an ment increases very quickly. approximately two seconds activates authorised dealer. the exterior lighting and a sound is RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS If a card is replaced it will be neces emitted. INJURY. sary to take the vehicle and all its Note Pressing button again switches cards to an approved Dealer to ini off the lighting. tialise the system. You may use up to four cards per vehicle ENG UD Cartes RENAULT g n ralit s BFB KFB Renault lighting exterior current page HANDS FREE CARD use Deactivating activating the hands free mode Depending on the vehicle you can de activate activate unlocking when approaching and locking when moving away from the vehicle locking and unlocking by pressing on the buttons on the door handle. You can also disable activate the sound Driver s responsibility signal that is emitted upon locking when when parking or stopping moving away from the vehicle the vehicle Never leave an animal child or adult who is not self suffi cient alone in your vehicle even for a short time. There are three ways to unlock lock the They may pose a risk to themselves vehicle or to others by starting the engine hands free when approaching and activating equipment such as the moving away from the vehicle electric windows or locking the hands free using the button on doors for example. the handle of one of the front doors Also in hot and or sunny weather using the card in remote control please remember that the tempera mode. ture inside the passenger compart ment increases very quickly. RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS INJURY. Do not store the card anywhere it may come into contact with other electronic equipment computer phone etc. as this could hinder its operation ENG UD Carte mains libres utilisation BFB KFB Renault locking the doors controls up to the end of the DU doors opening elements map up to the end of the DU hands free child safety up to the end of the DU current page map doors tailgate use up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU central door locking up to the end of the DU unlocking the doors up to the end of the DU opening closing doors up to the end of the DU closing the doors up to the end of the DU access vehicle up to the end of the DU remote control up to the end of the DU HANDS FREE CARD use Hands free unlocking when Hands free locking when If the card has been within the detec approaching the vehicle moving away from the tion area for approximately min utes remote locking is disabled. To lock vehicle With the card in access zone the ve the vehicle press the button on the hicle will unlock. Unlocking is indicated With the card on you doors and lug handle or the button on the card. by one flash of the hazard warning gage compartment door closed move The vehicle cannot be remotely locked lights and the indicator lights. away from the vehicle it will lock auto if the card is within the area. matically once you have left the access zone. Note the distance at which the vehicle locks depends on the surroundings. To indicate that the vehicle has been locked the hazard warning lights flash twice and then light up for ap Depending on the vehicle the door proximately four seconds and a beep mirrors fold in out automatically sounds in confirmation. when the vehicle is locked unlocked ENG UD Carte mains libres utilisation BFB KFB Renault HANDS FREE CARD use To indicate that the vehicle has been locked the hazard warning lights flash twice and then light up for approxi mately four seconds. Special features of the unlocking system After eight days of non use approach unlocking is disabled. Press button front door or boot handle or use the remote control card refer to the following pages to unlock the vehicle and reactivate the mode. Hands free unlocking Special features relating to Note if a door or the boot is open or not locking using button hands free locking properly shut locking is not carried out. A beep sounds and the hazard warning With the card in zone and the vehi After locking in hands free mode you lights and side repeaters do not flash. cle locked press the button on the have to wait approximately three sec handle of one of the two front doors onds to be able to unlock the vehicle the vehicle unlocks. Press the button again. During these three seconds the also unlocks all the doors and the tail door handles can be tried to make sure gate. that the vehicle is locked properly. Unlocking is indicated by one flash of the hazard warning lights and the indi cator lights. Pressing the button again locks the vehicle ENG UD Carte mains libres utilisation BFB KFB Renault HANDS FREE CARD use Locking using the card With the doors and boot closed press button the vehicle locks. To indicate that the vehicle has been locked the hazard warning lights flash twice and then light up for approxi mately four seconds. Pressing the button twice locks the vehicle and enables the closure of the front rear windows and sunroof de pending on the vehicle. Note the maximum distance at which the vehicle locks depends on the sur roundings Using the card as a remote If while the engine is running a door control if a door or the boot is open or not is opened and closed and the card is properly shut locking is not carried no longer in the zone the message Unlocking with the card out. A beep sounds and the hazard Keycard Not Detected indicates that warning lights and side repeaters do the card is not inside the vehicle. This Press button. not flash. will for example prevent you from driv Unlocking is indicated by one flash of ing away after dropping off a passenger the hazard warning lights and the indi who has kept the card on them. cator lights. The warning disappears when the card is detected again. Locking unlocking only the boot Press the button to lock unlock the boot only. The card buttons are deactivated when the engine is running ENG UD Carte mains libres utilisation BFB KFB Renault CARD deadlocking If the vehicle is equipped with a dead locking function this allows you to lock the opening elements and to prevent the doors from being unlocked using the interior handles for example by breaking the window and then trying to open the door from the inside. To do this press button twice in quick succession. Locking is confirmed by two slow flashes followed by three quick flashes of the hazard warning lights and side repeaters. Depending on the vehicle the door mir rors fold in automatically when the vehi cle is locked Never use deadlocking if someone is still inside the vehicle ENG UD Carte super condamnation BFB KFB Renault RENAULT card use up to the end of the DU central door locking up to the end of the DU doors tailgate up to the end of the DU locking the doors up to the end of the DU deadlocking the doors up to the end of the DU LOCKING UNLOCKING THE DOORS If the remote control or depending on the vehicle the card does not work In some cases the radio frequency remote control or the card may not A work card or radio frequency remote con trol battery worn or run flat vehicle battery flat etc use of appliances operating on the same frequency as the card mobile phone etc. vehicle located in a high electromag netic radiation zone. It is then possible The card s built in key depending on the vehicle use the radio frequency remote control or The integrated key is used to lock or the emergency key integrated in the unlock the front left hand door if the card to unlock the front left hand card does not work. door to lock each of the doors manually Access with key to use the interior door locking un Slide the rear casing downwards locking control refer to the following while pressing on zone A. pages ENG UD Verrouillage D verrouillage des portes BFB KFB Renault Locking unlocking the doors opening the doors up to the end of the DU closing the doors up to the end of the DU unlocking the doors up to the end of the DU central door locking up to the end of the DU doors tailgate up to the end of the DU locking the doors up to the end of the DU LOCKING UNLOCKING THE DOORS B Using the key integrated in the card Vehicles with key remote Locking the doors manually Insert the tip of the key into the control Turn screw with the door open using notch at the bottom of the cover B the end of the key and close the door. on the front left hand door Using the key This means that the doors are then Move it upwards to remove the Insert the key into the lock and lock locked from the outside. cover B or unlock the front left hand door. Insert the key into the lock and lock The doors may then only be opened or unlock the front left hand door. from the inside or by using the key in the front left hand door. Once you are inside the vehicle put the key back in its casing in the card ENG UD Verrouillage D verrouillage des portes BFB KFB Renault LOCKING UNLOCKING THE DOORS If transporting an object with the tail Door and tailgate status gate open you can still lock the doors indicator with the engine stopped press and hold switch for more than five sec When the ignition is on the indicator onds to lock the other doors. light integrated in switch informs you of the status of the doors and tailgate indicator light on the doors and tail Locking the opening gate are locked elements without the card or indicator light off the doors and tail the key gate are unlocked. For example in the event of a dis When you lock the doors from the out charged battery or the card or key tem side the indicator light remains lit for a porarily not working etc. moment and then goes out. With the engine switched off and a door or tailgate open press and hold Interior locking unlocking switch for more than five seconds. door control When the door is closed all the doors and the tailgate will be locked. Switch controls the doors the boot and the fuel filler flap simultaneously. Unlocking the vehicle from the outside Never leave your vehicle If a door or the boot is open or not prop is only possible with the card in the ve with the key or card inside. hicle access zone or by using the key. erly shut locking is not carried out. A beep sounds and the hazard warning lights and side repeaters do not flash. Driver s responsibility If you decide to keep the doors locked when you are driving remember that it may be more difficult for those as sisting you to gain access to the passenger compartment in the event of an emergency ENG UD Verrouillage D verrouillage des portes BFB KFB Renault tailgate current page tailgate current page OPENING AND CLOSING THE DOORS Driver s responsibility when parking or stopping the vehicle Never leave an animal child or adult who is not self suffi cient alone on your vehicle even for a short time. They may pose a risk to themselves or to others by starting the engine Opening the doors from the Opening from the inside activating equipment such as the outside Pull on the handle. electric windows or by locking the doors. With the doors unlocked or depending on the vehicle the card on you hold the Also in hot and or sunny weather handle and pull it towards you. please remember that the tempera ture inside the passenger compart ment increases very quickly. RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS INJURY. As a safety precaution the doors should only be opened or closed when the vehicle is stationary ENG UD Ouverture et fermeture des portes BFB KFB Renault Opening and closing the doors warning buzzer current page doors up to the end of the DU locking the doors up to the end of the DU opening the doors up to the end of the DU closing the doors up to the end of the DU OPENING AND CLOSING THE DOORS Lights on reminder buzzer A warning beep sounds when the driv er s door is opened to warn you that the lights are still on. Door tailgate open buzzer Child safety At a standstill warning light lights Move lever and check from the inside up on the instrument panel alongside that the doors are securely locked to warning light indicating the opening prevent the rear doors being opened element s door boot open or incor from the inside. rectly closed. Once the vehicle reaches a speed of approximately mph km h a warning light indicates if the door s or luggage compartment are open or not properly closed along with the message WARNING Boot Open or WARNING Door Open and a beep As a safety precaution will sound for around seconds or the doors should only be until the door luggage compartment is opened or closed when the closed. vehicle is stationary ENG UD Ouverture et fermeture des portes BFB KFB Renault child safety current page children safety current page tailgate current page tailgate current page child safety current page AUTOMATIC LOCKING WHEN DRIVING Activating deactivating the Operating faults function If you experience an operating fault no To switch it on with the vehicle at a automatic locking the indicator light in standstill and the engine running press corporated in switch does not light up switch until a beep sounds. when trying to lock the doors and boot etc. make sure that locking has not To deactivate with the vehicle at a been deactivated by mistake and check standstill and the engine running press that the doors and boot are properly switch until two beeps sound. closed. If they are correctly locked and You can also activate deactivate the the fault is still present contact an au function from the multimedia screen thorised dealer. menu Operating principle After the vehicle is started the system automatically locks the doors when you are driving at approximately mph km h and over. The door can be unlocked by pressing central door unlocking switch. at a standstill by opening a front door from inside the vehicle. Note if a door is opened or closed it Driver s responsibility will automatically lock again when the If you decide to keep the vehicle reaches a speed of mph doors locked when you are km h. driving remember that it may be more difficult for those as sisting you to gain access to the passenger compartment in the event of an emergency ENG UD Condamnation automatique des ouvrants en roulage BFB KFB Renault Automatic locking when driving RENAULT ANTI INTRUDER DEVICE RAID up to the end of the DU central door locking up to the end of the DU doors up to the end of the DU locking the doors up to the end of the DU doors tailgate up to the end of the DU closing the doors current page operating faults current page opening the doors current page unlocking the doors current page FRONT HEADRESTS To adjust the angle of the headrest A If your vehicle is thus equipped move the A section towards or away from you to the required position To remove the headrest Raise the headrest to its highest po sition tilt the seatback backwards if necessary. Press button and lift the headrest to release it. To refit the headrest To raise the headrest Check that the headrest rods are clean. The rod with a notch should be Pull the headrest upwards to the de inserted into the slot fitted with a lock sired height. Check that the bonnet is ing button. Insert the headrest rods correctly locked. into the holes tilt the seatback back wards if necessary. Press the button To lower the headrest and push in the headrest as far as it will go then adjust it to the desired height. Press button and guide the headrest Check that each rod on the seatback down to the desired height. Check that is securely locked. The headrest is an impor the bonnet is correctly locked. tant safety component ensure that it is in place and in the correct position. The distance between your head and the headrest and the distance between the head and section A should be as small as possible ENG UD Appuis t te avant BFB Renault Headrests SeatsFRONT SEATS WITH MANUAL CONTROL Settings To tilt the seatback Lift handle and tilt the seatback to the To move the seat forwards or back desired position. Release the handle at Lift handle to release. Release the the desired position and make sure that For safety reasons make handle at the desired position and it is locked. these adjustments only make sure that it is locked. when the vehicle is station To adjust the seat s lumbar position ary. To raise or lower the seat base Depending on the vehicle We would advise you not to recline Move lever as many times as neces the seatbacks too far to ensure that move the switch forwards back sary upwards or downwards. the effectiveness of the seat belts is wards up or down not reduced. or Nothing should be placed on the lower the handle to increase the floor area in front of driver as such support and lift it to decrease it. objects may slide under the pedal during braking manoeuvres thus obstructing its use ENG UD Si ges avant commandes manuelles KFB BFB Renault front seat adjustment up to the end of the DU front seats adjustment up to the end of the DU adjusting your driving position up to the end of the DU file current page seat base current page lumbars seat adjustment current page FRONT SEATS WITH MANUAL CONTROL When using the passenger seat in table position you must not use the two rear seats immediately behind it. Be sure to hold the seat back when placing it in the flat position. Table function Risk of injury. Depending on the vehicle the passen ger seatback may be folded down onto the seat base to create a table. When the front seatback is Lower the headrest in the table position you move the seat back must deactivate the front lift the lever and tilt the seatback passenger airbag forwards as far as possible Risk of serious injury caused by pull the handle and fully lower the items resting on the seatback table seatback. which may be dislodged when the airbagairbag is deployed. The label on the dashboard and the markings on the windscreen remind you of these instructions. For your safety attach any For safety reasons carry transported objects when out any adjustments when the seat is in the table po the vehicle is not being sition. driven ENG UD Si ges avant commandes manuelles KFB BFB Renault FRONT SEATS WITH MANUAL CONTROL Repositioning the seat Heated seats Make sure that nothing prevents the With the ignition on seat from moving. pressing the switch on the required Pull the handle and raise the seat seat for the first time activates the back ensuring that it locks firmly in heating system at maximum power. place. Both integrated switch warning lights Reposition the seat base. come on a second press decreases the heat ing to minimum power. One inte grated warning light comes on pressing for the third time turns the heating off ENG UD Si ges avant commandes manuelles KFB BFB Renault heated seats current page DRIVER S SEAT WITH ELECTRIC CONTROLS On vehicles that are equipped the Adjusting the seat position switch can be used to access the To move the seat forwards or back Seats menu on the multimedia screen Move switch forwards or backwards. see following pages. To raise or lower the seat base Move the back of switch up or down. Adjusting the seatback To tilt the seat base To tilt the seatback move the top of depending on the vehicle switch forwards or backwards. Move the front of switch upwards or downwards. Adjusting the lumbar support on the driver s seat Move the switch forwards back wards up or down ENG UD Si ges avant commandes lectriques BFB Renault front seats with electric controls current page adjusting your driving position up to the end of the DU front seat adjustment up to the end of the DU front seats adjustment up to the end of the DU file current page lumbars seat adjustment current page seat base current page DRIVER S SEAT WITH ELECTRIC CONTROLS For safety reasons carry Heated seats out any adjustments when the vehicle is not being With the ignition on driven. Pressing the switch on the required Make sure that the seatbacks are seat for the first time activates the correctly locked in place. heating system on high. Both switch indicator lights are illuminated We would advise you not to recline the seatbacks too far to ensure that pressing the switch for the second the effectiveness of the seat belts is time changes the heating to low. not reduced. Only one indicator light is illumi nated No object should be placed on the floor in front of the driver. such pressing for the third time turns the objects may slide under the pedals heating off. during sudden braking manoeuvres and obstruct their use ENG UD Si ges avant commandes lectriques BFB Renault heated seats current page FRONT SEATS Functions Browse the Driver menu to select the massage type Tonic Massage Relaxing or Lumbar ON adjust the intensity or Tonic Relaxing Lumbar adjust the speed or Intensity reset the settings selected on the Speed dropdown menu activate deactivate the massage seat ON or OFF. Note the mode selected in the MULTI SENSE menu may affect the configura tion of the massage A number of seat functions are avail Massage able from the multifunction screen de You can activate the driver s seat mas pending on the vehicle. sage function. On equipped vehicles the switch pro Refer to the multimedia instructions for vides direct access to the Seats menu information on accessing the settings. on the multimedia screen. Refer to the multimedia instructions for more information ENG UD Si ge avant fonctionnalit s BFB Renault massage seat massage current page front seat adjustment up to the end of the DU front seats adjustment up to the end of the DU FRONT SEATS Functions Easy driver access Press ON or OFF to activate or deacti vate this function. When this function is activated the seat automatically moves back when the driver leaves the vehicle and returns to its position when the start button is pressed. Visual feedback Easy access driver Easy passenger access Courtesy for passenger Settings Refer to the multimedia instructions for information on accessing the settings. You can activate or deactivate the fol lowing elements easy driver access visual feedback of current move ment ENG UD Si ge avant fonctionnalit s BFB Renault FRONT SEATS Functions Position It is possible to store the driving posi tion of the driver seat. The driving position includes the set tings for the seat base and seatback. The driving position can be stored and Save Recall recalled by pressing the buttons hands free card detected Visual feedback when the driver s door is opened. Easy access driver Easy passenger access Courtesy for passenger Storing your driving position Recalling the driving position Adjust the driver s seat using Refer to the multimedia instructions for switches and refer to previous information on recalling the driving po page. sition. Refer to the multimedia instructions for Note recall of the stored driving po information on accessing the stored sition is interrupted if one of the seat driving position. adjustment buttons is pressed during recall. The position of the driver is then stored. When driving it is not possible to recall a driving position. For safety reasons carry out any adjustments when the vehicle is stationary ENG UD Si ge avant fonctionnalit s BFB Renault adjusting your driving position current page front seat driver s position memory current page seats driver seat with position memory current page seats driver adjustment of driving position current page STEERING WHEEL Activating the function With the ignition on press the switch the warning light integrated in the switch lights up. Deactivating the function Automatic The function switches off automatically after the regulation phase of approxi mately minutes. The switch warn ing light stays on. Note If the function has switched off automatically press the switch twice to reactivate it. If switch is not pressed again the Adjusting the steering wheel Steering wheel heating function will be reactivated the next height and depth depending on the vehicle time the ignition is switched on. Lower the lever and position the This function heats the steering wheel Manually steering wheel in the required position. in areas and. To deactivate the function during the re Then raise the lever fully beyond the Operating principle gulation phase press the switch. The point of resistance to lock the steering indicator light in the switch goes out. When the temperature is reached the wheel. function regulates the temperature of Make sure that the steering wheel is the heated areas for approximately correctly locked. minutes and then switches off auto matically. For safety reasons only adjust the steering wheel when the vehicle is statio nary ENG UD Volant de direction BFB KFB Renault Steering wheel steering wheel adjustment up to the end of the DU heated steering wheel current page driving position settings up to the end of the DU SEAT BELTS Always wear your seat belt when trav Adjusting your driving elling in your vehicle. You must also position comply with the legislation of the par ticular country you are in. Sit well back in your seat having removed your coat or jacket etc Before starting first adjust your driv This is essential to ensure your back ing position then ask all occupants is positioned correctly to adjust their seat belts to ensure optimum protection. adjust the distance between the seat and the pedals. Your seat should be as far back as possible while still allowing you to depress Make sure that the rear bench seat the clutch pedal fully. The seatback is locked in position correctly so that should be adjusted so that your arms the rear seat belts will operate cor are slightly bent when you hold the rectly steering wheel adjust the position of your head rest. For maximum safety your head must be as close as possible to the Incorrectly adjusted or headrest twisted seat belts may adjust the height of the seat. This cause injuries in the event adjustment allows you to select the of an accident. seat position which offers you the Use one seat belt per person best possible view whether child or adult. adjust the position of the steering Even pregnant women should wear wheel. a seat belt. In this case ensure that the lap belt is not exerting too much pressure on the abdomen but do not allow any slack ENG UD Ceintures de s curit BFB KFB Renault Seat belts seat belts up to the end of the DU adjusting your driving position up to the end of the DU front seats adjustment current page driving position settings up to the end of the DU SEAT BELTS Locking Unwind the belt slowly and smoothly and ensure that buckle locks into catch check that it is locked by pull ing on buckle. If the belt jams allow it to return slightly before attempting to unwind it again. If your seat belt is completely jammed pull slowly but firmly so that just over cm unwinds. Allow it to return slightly before attempting to unwind it again. If there is still a problem contact an ap proved dealer. Adjusting the seat belts Unlocking Sit with your back firmly against the Press button and the seat belt will be seatback. rewound by the inertia reel. Guide the Shoulder strap should be as close as belt. possible to the base of the neck but not on it. Lap belt should be worn flat over the thighs and against the pelvis. The belt should be worn so that it is as close as possible to your body i.e. avoid wearing heavy clothing or keep ing bulky objects under the belts etc ENG UD Ceintures de s curit BFB KFB Renault locking up to the end of the DU SEAT BELTS Driver s seat belt reminder In all cases check that the rear pas and depending on the vehi sengers are wearing seat belts and that cle front passenger seat belt re the number of seat belts shown as fas minder tened matches the number of rear seat places occupied. This appears on the central display when the engine is started if the driver s Note an object placed on one of the or front passenger s seat belt as long front seat bases may activate the warn as the passenger seat is occupied is ing light in some cases. not fastened. If one of these seat belts is not fastened while the vehicle is moving at a speed over mph km h the warning flashes and an audible warning sounds during seconds. Note an object placed on the passen ger seat base may activate the warning light in some cases. playback of graphic Rear seat belt reminder depending indicator green seatbelt fastened on ve hicle indicator red seatbelt unfastened The warning light illuminates on indicator grey seat not occupied. the central display when the engine is started. Depending on the vehicle it When a rear seat belt is or becomes may be accompanied by the graphic unfastened while the vehicle is moving indicating the fastening status of each at a speed over mph km h the of the rear seat belts upon each warning light flashes and an audible warning sounds during or sec starting the vehicle onds depending on the vehicle. opening a door fastening or unfastening of a rear seat belt ENG UD Ceintures de s curit BFB KFB Renault SEAT BELTS Adjusting the height of the Rear seat belts front seat belts The belts are locked unlocked and Use button to adjust the seat belt adjusted in the same way as the front height so that the shoulder strap is belts. worn as shown previously. Press the control and raise or lower the seat belt. Make sure that the seat belt is locked in position correctly after you have ad justed it. Check that the rear seat belts are positioned and operating correctly each time the rear bench seat is moved ENG UD Ceintures de s curit BFB KFB Renault rear seats current page SEAT BELTS The following information applies to the vehicle s front and rear seat belts. No modification may be made to the component parts of the originally fitted restraint system seat belts seats and their mountings. For special operations e.g. fitting child seats contact an authorised dealer. Do not use devices which allow any slack in the belts e.g. clothes pegs clips etc. a seat belt which is worn too loosely may cause injury in the event of an accident. Never wear the shoulder strap under your arm or behind your back. Never use the same belt for more than one person and never hold a baby or child on your lap with your seat belt around them. The belt should never be twisted. Following an accident have the seat belts checked and replaced if necessary. Always replace your seat belts as soon as they show any signs of wear. When positioning the rear bench seat make sure that the seat belts and buckles are correctly positioned so that they can be used properly. Make sure that the buckle is inserted into the appropriate catch. Ensure that no objects are placed in the area around the seat belt catch as they could prevent it from being properly se cured. Make sure the seat belt catch is properly positioned it should not be hidden away crushed or flattened by people or ob jects ENG UD Ceintures de s curit BFB KFB Renault METHODS OF RESTRAINT IN ADDITION TO THE FRONT SEAT BELTS Depending on the vehicle they are Have the entire restraint composed of system checked following seat belt inertia reel pretension an accident. ers No operation whatso central seat belt pretensioners ever is permitted on any part chest level load limiter of the system pretensioners airbags driver and passenger airbags computers wiring and front. the system components must not be reused on any other vehicle These systems are designed to act in even if identical. dependently or together when the vehi cle is subjected to a frontal impact. Only qualified personnel from our Network may work on the airbags Depending on the severity of the otherwise the system may trigger impact the system can trigger accidentally and cause injury. seat belt locking Pretensioners The electric trigger system may the seat belt inertia reel pretensioner only be tested by a specially The pretensioners hold the seat belt which engages to correct seat belt trained technician using special against the body holding the occupant slack equipment. more securely against the seat thus in the lap belt pretensioners to hold the creasing the seat belt s efficiency. When the vehicle is scrapped occupant in his seat contact an approved dealer for In the event of a severe frontal impact disposal of the pretensioner and the front airbag. and if the ignition is switched on the airbags gas generators. system may engage the following de pending on the force of the impact the seat belt inertia reel preten sioner which instantly retracts the seat belt the lap seat belt inertia reel preten sioner on the front seats ENG UD Dispositifs compl mentaires la ceinture avant BFB KFB Renault Additional methods of restraint in addition to the front seat belts seat belts up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU additional methods of restraint up to the end of the DU seat belt pretensioners up to the end of the DU air bag up to the end of the DU additional methods of restraint to the front seat belts up to the end of the DU seat belt pretensioners front seat belt up to the end of the DU methods of restraint in addition to the seat belts up to the end of the DU airbags up to the end of the DU air bag up to the end of the DU pretensioners METHODS OF RESTRAINT IN ADDITION TO THE FRONT SEAT BELTS Load limiter driver and passenger front Airbags Above a certain severity of impact this mechanism is used to limit the force of Fitted to the driver and passenger the belt against the body so that it is at sides. an acceptable level. The presence of this equipment is indi A cated by the word airbag on the steer ing wheel dashboard in the area of the airbag A and depending on the vehi cle a label on the lower section of the windscreen. Each airbag system consists of an airbag and gas generator fitted on the steering wheel for the driver and in the dashboard for the passenger an electronic unit for system monitor ing which controls the gas generator electrical trigger system remote sensors a single warning light on the The airbag system uses py instrument panel. rotechnic principles. This explains why when the airbag inflates it will gener ate heat produce smoke this does not mean that a fire is about to start and make a banging noise. In a situ ation where an airbag is required it will inflate immediately and this may cause some minor superficial graz ing to the skin or other problems ENG UD Dispositifs compl mentaires la ceinture avant BFB KFB Renault METHODS OF RESTRAINT IN ADDITION TO THE FRONT SEAT BELTS Operating faults This warning light comes on when the engine is started and then goes out after approximately three sec onds. If it does not come on when the ignition is switched on or if it stays on there is a fault in the system. Contact your approved Dealer as soon as possible. Your protection will be reduced until this fault is rectified. Operation This system is only operational when the ignition is switched on. In a severe frontal impact the airbags inflate rapidly cushioning the impact of the driver s head and chest against the steering wheel and of the front pas senger against the dashboard. The air bags then deflate immediately so that the passengers are not in any way hin dered from leaving the vehicle ENG UD Dispositifs compl mentaires la ceinture avant BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page METHODS OF RESTRAINT IN ADDITION TO THE FRONT SEAT BELTS The following cases trigger the pre In a frontal impact with another vehi In a side impact with another vehicle tensioners or airbags. cle of an equivalent or higher category of an equivalent or higher category at with an impact area equal to or greater an impact speed equal to or greater In a frontal impact against a rigid than where the speed of both ve than mph km h. non deformable surface at an impact hicles is equal to or greater than speed equal to or greater than mph mph km h. km h ENG UD Dispositifs compl mentaires la ceinture avant BFB KFB Renault METHODS OF RESTRAINT IN ADDITION TO THE FRONT SEAT BELTS In the following examples the pre In the following examples there is a side impact to the front or rear of the tensioners or the airbags could op risk that pretensioners orairbags may vehicle erate not be triggered frontal impact under the tail of a impact under vehicle such as pave rear impact however severe lorry ment the vehicle overturning frontal impact against an obstacle potholes with a sharp angle drop or hard landing stones. ENG UD Dispositifs compl mentaires la ceinture avant BFB KFB Renault METHODS OF RESTRAINT IN ADDITION TO THE FRONT SEAT BELTS All of the warnings below are given so that the airbag is not obstructed in any way when it is inflated and also to prevent the risk of serious injuries caused by items which may be dislodged when it inflates. Warnings concerning the driver s airbag Do not modify the steering wheel or the steering wheel boss. Do not cover the steering wheel boss under any circumstances. Do not attach any objects badge logo clock telephone holder etc. to the steering wheel boss. The steering wheel must not be removed except by qualified personnel from our Network. Do not sit too close to the steering wheel when driving sit with your arms slightly bent see Adjusting your driving position This will allow sufficient space for the air bag to deploy correctly and to be fully effective. Warnings concerning the passenger airbag Do not attach or glue any objects badge logo clock telephone holder etc. to the dashboard on or near the airbag. Do not place anything between the dashboard and the passenger pet umbrella walking stick parcels etc The passenger must not put his or her feet on the dashboard or seat as there is a risk that serious injuries may be sustained. In general parts of the body should be kept away from the dashboard knees hands head etc. The devices in addition to the front passenger seat belt should be reactivated as soon as a child seat is removed to ensure the protection of the passenger in the event of an impact. A REAR FACING CHILD SEAT MUST NOT BE FITTED TO THE FRONT PASSENGER SEAT UNLESS THE RESTRAINT SYSTEMS IN ADDITION TO THE FRONT PASSENGER SEATBELT ARE DEACTIVATED ENG UD Dispositifs compl mentaires la ceinture avant BFB KFB Renault child safety current page METHODS OF RESTRAINT IN ADDITION TO THE REAR SEAT BELTS Force limiter Above a certain severity of impact this mechanism is used to limit the force of the belt against the body so that it is at an acceptable level. Have the entire restraint system checked following an accident. No operation whatsoever is permitted on any part of the system air bags electronic con trol units wiring and the system components must not be reused on any other vehicle even if iden tical. Only qualified personnel from our Network may work on the air bags otherwise the system may trigger accidentally and cause injury ENG UD Dispositifs compl mentaires aux ceintures arri re JFC Renault to the rear seat belts additional methods of restraint to the rear seat belts up to the end of the DU methods of restraint in addition to the seat belts up to the end of the DU air bag up to the end of the DU SIDE PROTECTION DEVICES Side air bags These air bags are fitted to the front seats and are activated at the sides of the seats door side to protect the oc cupants in the event of a severe side impact. Curtain air bags These are airbags fitted along the sides of the vehicle in the ceiling which trigger along the front and rear door side win dows to protect the passengers in case of a severe side impact. Warning concerning the side air bag Fitting seat covers seats equipped with an air bag require covers specifically designed for your vehicle. Contact an approved Dealer to find out if these covers are available. The use of any covers other than those designed for your vehicle including those designed for another vehicle may affect the operation of the air bags and reduce your protection. Do not place any accessories objects or even pets between the seatback the door and the internal fittings. Do not cover the seatback with any items such as clothes or accessories. This may prevent the air bag from operating correctly or cause injury when the air bag is deployed. Depending on the vehicle a mark No work or modification whatsoever may be carried out on the seat or internal ing on the windscreen informs you fittings except by qualified personnel from an approved dealer. of the presence of additional means of restraint airbags pretensioners etc. in the passenger compartment ENG UD Dispositifs de protection lat rale JFC BFB Renault side protection air bag up to the end of the DU additional methods of restraint side protection up to the end of the DU methods of restraint in addition to the seat belts up to the end of the DU ADDITIONAL METHODS OF RESTRAINT All of the warnings below are given so that the air bag is not obstructed in any way when it is inflated and also to prevent the risk of serious injuries caused by items which may be dislodged when the air bag inflates. The air bag is designed to complement the action of the seat belt. Both the air bags and seat belts are integral parts of the same protection system. It is therefore essential to wear seat belts at all times. If seat belts are not worn the occu pants are exposed to the risk of serious injury in the event of an accident. It may also increase the risk of minor super ficial injuries occurring when the air bag is deployed although such minor injuries are always possible with air bags. If the vehicle should overturn or suffer a rear impact however severe the pretensioners and air bags are not always triggered. Shocks to the underbody of the vehicle e.g. from pavements potholes or stones can all trigger these systems. No work or modification whatsoever may be carried out on any part of the air bag system air bags pretensioners compu ter wiring harness etc. except by qualified personnel from an approved dealer. To ensure that the system is in good working order and to avoid accidental triggering of the system which may cause injury only qualified Network personnel may work on the air bag system. As a safety precaution have the air bag system checked if your vehicle has been involved in an accident or is stolen or broken into. When selling or lending the vehicle inform the user of these points and hand over this driver s handbook with the vehicle. When scrapping your vehicle contact your approved dealer for disposal of the gas generator s ENG UD Dispositifs de retenue compl mentaire JFC Renault air bag up to the end of the DU methods of restraint in addition to the seat belts up to the end of the DU additional methods of restraint up to the end of the DU CHILD SAFETY General information Carrying children Please ensure that you comply with the legislation of your country. Children and adults must be correctly seated and strapped in for all journeys. The children being carried in your vehi cle are your responsibility. Driver s responsibility A child is not a miniature adult. Children when parking or stopping are at risk of specific injuries as their the vehicle muscles and bones have not yet fin ished growing. The seat belt alone Never leave an animal would not provide suitable protection. child or adult who is not self suffi Use an approved child seat and ensure cient alone on your vehicle even for you use it correctly. a short time. They may pose a risk to themselves or to others by starting the engine A collision at mph activating equipment such as the km h is the same as fall electric windows or by locking the ing a distance of metres. doors. Transporting a child without Also in hot and or sunny weather a restraint is the equivalent of allow please remember that the tempera ing him or her to play on a fourth ture inside the passenger compart floor balcony without railings. ment increases very quickly. Never travel with a child held in your arms. In the event of an accident RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS you will not be able to keep hold of INJURY. To prevent the doors being the child even if you yourself are opened use the Child lock wearing a seat belt. feature If your vehicle has been involved in a road accident replace the child seat and have the seat belts and ISOFIX anchorage points checked ENG UD S curit enfants g n ralit s BFB KFB Renault Child safety General information child safety up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child seats up to the end of the DU transporting children up to the end of the DU children up to the end of the DU CHILD SAFETY General information Using a child seat Set a good example by always fas The level of protection offered by the tening your seat belt and teaching child seat depends on its ability to re your child strain your child and on its installation. to strap themselves in correctly Incorrect installation compromises the to always get in and out of the car protection it offers the child in the event at the kerb away from busy traf of harsh braking or an impact. fic. Before purchasing a child seat check Do not use a second hand child that it complies with the regulations for seat or one without an instruction the country you are in and that it can manual. be fitted in your vehicle. Consult an ap proved dealer to find out which seats Check that there are no objects in are recommended for your vehicle. the vicinity of the child seat which could impede its operation. Before fitting a child seat read the manual and respect its instructions. If you experience any difficulties during Never leave a child unat installation contact the manufacturer tended in the vehicle. of the equipment. Keep the instructions Check that your child is with the seat. always strapped in and that the belt or safety harness used is correctly set and adjusted. Avoid wearing bulky clothing which could cause the belts to slacken. Never let your child put their head or arms out of the window. Check that the child is in the correct position for the entire journey espe cially if asleep ENG UD S curit enfants g n ralit s BFB KFB Renault child safety up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child seats up to the end of the DU transporting children up to the end of the DU children up to the end of the DU CHILD SAFETY choosing a child seat Rear facing child seats Forward facing child seats Booster cushions A baby s head is proportionally heavier The child s head and abdomen need to From kg or years the child can than that of an adult and its neck is very be protected as a priority. A forward fac travel using a booster seat which will fragile. Transport the child in this po ing child seat which is firmly attached to enable the seat belt to be adapted sition for as long as possible until the the vehicle will reduce the risk of impact to suit his her size and shape. The age of at the very least. It supports to the head. Ensure your child travels in booster seat cushion must be fitted with both the head and the neck. a forward facing seat with a harness for guides to position the seat belt on the as long as their size permits. child s thighs rather than the stomach. Choose a bucket type seat for best side It is recommended that you use a seat protection and change it as soon as the Choose a bucket type seat for optimum back fitted with a belt strap guide which child s head is higher than the shell. side protection. can be adjusted in terms of height to position the seat belt in the centre of the shoulder. It must never rest on the neck or on the arm. Choose a bucket type seat for optimum side protection ENG UD S curit enfants choix du si ge enfant XJA Renault CHILD SAFETY choosing a child seat mounting There are two ways of attaching child Attachment via the seat belt seats via the seat belt or using the The seat belt must be adjusted to ISOFIX system. ensure that it is effective in the event of harsh braking or an impact. Ensure that the strap paths indicated by the child seat manufacturer are re spected. Always check that the seat belt is cor rectly fastened by pulling it up then pulling it out fully whilst pressing on the child seat. Check that the seat is correctly held by moving it from side to side and back to front the seat should remain firmly fixed. Check that the child seat has not been installed at an angle and that it is not The seat belt must never resting against a window. be twisted or the tension relieved. Never pass the shoulder strap under the arm or behind the back. Check that the seat belt has not been damaged by sharp edges. If the seat belt does not operate nor mally it will not protect the child. Do not use the child seat Consult an approved dealer. Do not if it may unfasten the seat use this seat until the seat belt has belt restraining it the base been repaired. of the seat must not rest on the buckle and or catch of the seat belt ENG UD S curit enfants choix de la fixation du si ge enfant BFB KFB Renault choosing a child seat mounting child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child safety up to the end of the DU child seats up to the end of the DU transporting children up to the end of the DU Isofix up to the end of the DU seat belts up to the end of the DU rear seats up to the end of the DU rear bench seat up to the end of the DU CHILD SAFETY choosing a child seat mounting Attachment using the ISOFIX Attach the child seat with the ISOFIX system locks if these are provided. The ISOFIX system allows quick easy safe fitting. Approved child seats ISOFIX are stand ardised in accordance with current reg The ISOFIX system consists of rings ulations if any of the four cases below and in some cases a third ring. applies ISOFIX universal point forward facing seat ISOFIX semi universal point seat Specific i Size Which has either a belt which attaches to the third ring of the seat concerned or a strut that rests on the vehi cle floor compatible with the ap proved seat i Size the role of No modifications may be which is to prevent the child seat made to the component from moving in the event of a col parts of the restraint system lision. ISOFIX seat belts seats and their mountings originally fitted. In the latter three cases check that your child seat can be installed by consulting the list of compatible vehicles. Before using an ISOFIX child seat that you pur chased for another vehicle check that its installation is authorised. Consult the list of ve hicles which can be fitted with the seat from the equipment manufac turer ENG UD S curit enfants choix de la fixation du si ge enfant BFB KFB Renault CHILD SAFETY choosing a child seat mounting The rings are located on the rear seat backs and indicated by the symbol. In all cases attach the strap hook to the corresponding ring or and place the seat in the desired position. Pull the belt so that the back of the child seat comes into contact with the back of the vehicle seat. Attachment using the ISOFIX The third ring or is used to attach system the upper strap on some seats ISOFIX. Check that the seatback The two rings are located between of the forward facing child the seatback and the seat base of the seat is in contact with the seat and are identified by a marking. To seatback of the vehicle position and lock the child seat on the seat. In this case the child seat may rings insert the child seat mountings not always rest on the seat base of in the access guides. the vehicle seat. The ISOFIX anchorage points have been exclusively designed for child The child seat strap must seats with the ISOFIX system. Never fit a different type of child seat seat be attached to the corre belt or other objects to these anchorage points. Check that nothing is ob sponding ring. structing the anchorage points. Do not use any other If your vehicle has been involved in a road accident have the ISOFIX anchorage mounting point. points checked and replace your child seat ENG UD S curit enfants choix de la fixation du si ge enfant BFB KFB Renault CHILD SAFETY choosing a child seat mounting The rings are located behind the rear seats and indicated by the symbol. Attach the strap hook to the corre sponding ring and place the vehicle seat in the desired position. Pull the belt so that the back of the child seat comes into contact with the back of the vehicle seat. Attachment using the ISOFIX The third ring is used to attach the system upper strap on some seats ISOFIX. Check that the seatback door version of the forward facing child The two rings are located between seat is in contact with the the seatback and the seat base of the seatback of the vehicle seat and are identified by a marking. To seat. In this case the child seat may position and lock the child seat on the not always rest on the seat base of rings insert the child seat mountings the vehicle seat. in the access guides. The ISOFIX anchorage points have been exclusively designed for child The child seat strap must seats with the ISOFIX system. Never fit a different type of child seat seat be attached to the corre belt or other objects to these anchorage points. Check that nothing is ob sponding ring. structing the anchorage points. Do not use any other If your vehicle has been involved in a road accident have the ISOFIX anchorage mounting point. points checked and replace your child seat ENG UD S curit enfants choix de la fixation du si ge enfant BFB KFB Renault CHILD SAFETY fitting a child seat general information Some seats are not suitable for fitting The types of child seat indicated may After installing the child seat when this child seats. The diagram on the follow not be available. Before using a differ is possible you can move the vehi ing page shows you how to attach a ent child seat check with the manufac cle seat forward if necessary so as to child seat. turer that it can be fitted. leave enough space in the rear seats for passengers or other child seats. In the front seat For a rear facing child seat do not let The laws concerning children travel it touch the dashboard or move it to the ling in the front passenger seat differ in furthest forward position. every country. Consult the legislation in Do not change other settings after in Fit the child seat in a rear force and follow the indications on the stalling the child seat. seat wherever possible. diagram on the following page. Make sure the child seat or Before fitting a child seat in this seat if the child s feet do not pre authorised vent the front seat from locking cor lower the seat belt as far as possible rectly move the seat as far back as possi ble Check that when installing the child gently tilt the seatback away from seat in the vehicle it is not at risk of vertical approximately coming loose from its base. on equipped vehicles raise the seat If you have to remove the headrest base as far as possible. check that it is correctly stored so In all cases when the vehicle is that it does not come loose under equipped with an adjustable headrest harsh braking or impact. fully raise the seat headrest so that it Always attach the child seat to the does not interfere with the child seat vehicle even if it is not in use so that it does not come loose under harsh braking or impact. RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS INJURY before fitting a rear facing child seat in this seat make sure that the airbag has been deacti vated ENG UD S curit enfants installation du si ge enfant g n ralit BFB Renault fitting a child seat general information child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child safety up to the end of the DU child seats up to the end of the DU transporting children up to the end of the DU CHILD SAFETY fitting a child seat general information In the rear seat A carrycot can be installed across the vehicle and will take up at least two seats. Position the child with his or her feet nearest the door. Move the front seat as far forward as possible to install a rear facing child seat then move back the seat in front as far as it will go although without al lowing it to come into contact with the child seat. For the safety of a child in the facing forwards move the seat as far back as possible and move the seat in front of the child forward remembering to move the seatback forwards to avoid contact A child seat with floor sup between the seat and the child s legs. ports must never be in stalled on the rear centre Always remove the headrest from the When fitting a child seat seat. rear seat on which the child seat is po Group or booster seat sitioned If necessary position RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS check that the seat belts the rear vehicle seat as far back as pos INJURY. operate wind correctly sible. This must be done before fitting If necessary adjust the posi the child seat. tion of the vehicle seat. Check that the child seat is resting against the back of the vehicle seat. Fit the child seat in a rear seat wherever possible. To install an ISOFIX seat in Ensure that the child seat this seat detach the central or the child s feet do not seat belt by hand before engaging prevent the front seat from locking correctly or the bolts ENG UD S curit enfants installation du si ge enfant g n ralit BFB Renault CHILD SEATS attachment by seat belt The table below summarises the information already shown in the diagram on the following pages to ensure the appli cable regulations are respected. Front passenger Type of child seat Weight of the child Rear side seats Rear centre seat seat Carrycot fitted across the vehicle kg X U X Group Rear facing shell seat kg and kg U U U Groups or Shell seat rear facing seat kg and to kg U U U Groups and Forward facing seat to kg X U U Group Booster seat to kg and to X U X Groups and kg RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS INJURY before fitting a child seat in the front passenger seat make sure that the front passenger airbag has been deactivated ENG UD Si ges enfant fixation par ceinture de s curit BFB KFB Renault Child seats attachment by seat belt or by Isofix system child restraint seat up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU child safety up to the end of the DU child seats up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU transporting children up to the end of the DU air bag activating the front passenger air bags current page seat belts up to the end of the DU children up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU air bag up to the end of the DU airbags CHILD SEATS attachment by seat belt X Seat not suitable for fitting child seats of this type. U Seat which allows a child seat with Universal approval to be installed using a seat belt check that it can be fitted. A carrycot can be installed across the vehicle and will take up at least two seats. Position the child with his or her feet nearest the door. If necessary position the vehicle seat as far back as possible. Move the front seat as far forward as possible to install a rear facing child seat then move back the seat in front as far as it will go although without allowing it to come into contact with the child seat. In all situations remove the rear headrest of the seat on which the child seat is positioned. This must be done before fitting the child seat Move the seat in front of the child forwards move the seatback forward to avoid contact between the seat and the child s legs. Raise the seat to the maximum and position it as far back as possible tilting the seatback slightly approximately ENG UD Si ges enfant fixation par ceinture de s curit BFB KFB Renault CHILD SEATS attachment by seat belt Fitting diagram Check the status of the airbag before fitting a child seat or allowing a passenger to use the seat. Seat not suitable for fitting child seats. Child seat attached using the belt Seat which allows a child seat with Universal approval to be attached by a seat belt. Using a child safety system which is not approved for RISK OF DEATH OR this vehicle will not correctly SERIOUS INJURY before protect the baby or child. fitting a child seat in the They risk serious or even fatal injury. front passenger seat make sure that the front passenger airbag has been deactivated ENG UD Si ges enfant fixation par ceinture de s curit BFB KFB Renault CHILD SEATS attachment using the isofix system Fitting diagram Child seat fitted using the ISOFIX m ounting Seat which allows an ISOFIX child seat to be fitted. The rear seats are fitted with an anchorage point which allows a forward facing ISOFIX child seat with universal approval to be attached. The anchorage points are located on the backs of the rear seats. Seat which does not allow a child seat to be fitted. Using a child safety system which is not approved for RISK OF DEATH OR this vehicle will not correctly SERIOUS INJURY before protect the baby or child. fitting a child seat in the They risk serious or even fatal injury. front passenger seat make sure that the front passenger airbag has been deactivated ENG UD sieges enfant fixation par syst me isofix BFB KFB Renault air bag child seats activating the front passenger air bags up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU child restraint seat airbag up to the end of the DU front passenger airbag deactivation transporting children up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU air bag up to the end of the DU airbags up to the end of the DU seat belts up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU children up to the end of the DU Isofix up to the end of the DU child restraint seat up to the end of the DU child safety up to the end of the DU CHILD SEATS attachment using the isofix system The table below summarises the information already shown on the diagram on the previous pages to ensure the regula tions in force are respected. Weight of Seat size Front passenger Type of child seat Rear side seats Rear centre seat the child Gabarit seat Carrycot fitted across F G the vehicle kg X X X Group L L Rear facing shell E seat kg X IL X Groups or R Rear facing seat kg and to C D X IL X Groups or kg R R Forward facing seat A B B to kg X IUF IL X Group F F F X Booster seat to kg and B X IUF IL X Groups or to kg Seat i Size X i U X RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS INJURY before fitting a child seat in the front passenger seat make sure that the front passenger airbag has been deactivated ENG UD sieges enfant fixation par syst me isofix BFB KFB Renault CHILD SEATS attachment using the isofix system X Seat not suitable for fitting child seats ISOFIX. IUF IL On equipped vehicles seat which allows an approved Universal semi universal or vehicle specific child seat to be at tached using the ISOFIX system check that it can be fitted. i U Suitable for the i Size restraint devices in the universal forward facing and backward facing category. If necessary position the vehicle seat as far back as possible. Move the front seat as far forward as possible to install a rear facing child seat then move back the seat in front as far as it will go although without allowing it to come into contact with the child seat. In all situations remove the rear headrest of the seat on which the child seat is positioned. This must be done before fitting the child seat Move the seat in front of the child forwards move the seatback forward to avoid contact between the seat and the child s legs. The size of the ISOFIX child seat is indicated by a letter A B and B F F F X for forward facing seats in group to kg C and D R R shell seat or rear facing seats in group less than kg or group to kg E R rear facing shell seats in group less than kg or less than kg F and G L L cots in group less than kg B boosters in groups and to kg and to kg ENG UD sieges enfant fixation par syst me isofix BFB KFB Renault CHILD SAFETY deactivating activating the front passenger airbag The front passenger airbag should only be activated or deactivated when the vehi cle is stationary with the ignition off. If it is interfered with when the ve h icle is being driven indicator lights and will come on. Switch the ignition off then on again to reset the air bag in accordance with the lock position. Deactivating the front To deactivate the l airbag with the passenger airbag vehicle stationary and the ignition off push and turn lock to the OFF po Before installing a child seat on the sition. front passenger seat With the ignition on you must check DANGER check that the child seat can be in stalled on this seat that the warning light is lit on the Since operation of the front display. passenger airbag is not You must deactivate the airbag in compatible with the po the case of a child seat that is facing This light remains permanently lit to sition of a rear facing child seat backwards. let you know that you can fit a child NEVER fit a rear facing child re seat. straint system in a seat protected by an ACTIVATED front AIRBAG. This can lead to the DEATH of the CHILD or SERIOUS INJURY ENG UD S curit enfants d sactivation activation airbag passager avant BFB KFB Renault deactivating activating the airbag front passenger child safety up to the end of the DU children up to the end of the DU air bag up to the end of the DU airbags up to the end of the DU front passenger air bag deactivation up to the end of the DU front passenger air bag deactivation up to the end of the DU air bag activating the front passenger air bags up to the end of the DU CHILD SAFETY deactivating activating the front passenger airbag A A The markings on the dashboard and labels A on each side of the passen ger sun visor example label shown above remind you of these instruc tions. DANGER Since operation of the front passenger airbag is not compatible with the po sition of a rear facing child seat NEVER fit a rear facing child re straint system in a seat protected by an ACTIVATED front AIRBAG. This can lead to the DEATH of the CHILD or SERIOUS INJURY ENG UD S curit enfants d sactivation activation airbag passager avant BFB KFB Renault CHILD SAFETY deactivating activating the front passenger airbag Operating faults It is forbidden to fit a rear facing child seat to the front passenger seat if the airbag activation deactivation system is faulty. Allowing any other passenger to sit in that seat is not recommended. Contact your approved dealer as soon as possible. Activating the front To reactivate the airbag with the passenger airbag vehicle stoppedand the ignition off push and turn lock to the ON position. You should reactivate the airbag as With the ignition switched on y ou must The front passenger airbag soon as you remove the child seat from must only be activated or the front passenger seat to ensure the check that the warning light is deactivated when the vehi protection of the front passenger in the out and that the warning light cle is stationary with the event of an impact. comes on the display after each start ignition off. up for around seconds. If it is interfered with when the ve The front passenger airbag is activated. h icle is being driven indicator lights and will come on. Switch the ignition off then on again to reset the air bag in accordance with the lock position ENG UD S curit enfants d sactivation activation airbag passager avant BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page AUDIBLE AND VISUAL SIGNALS Direction indicators Move stalk parallel to the steering wheel and in the direction you are going to turn it. One touch mode When driving it is possible that the A steering wheel may not be turned suf ficiently to return the stalk automatically to its starting position. In this case briefly turn stalk to the in termediate position then release it the stalk returns to its original point and the indicator light flashes three times. Horn Hazard warning lights Press the steering wheel boss A to ac Press switch. This switch ac tivate the horn. tivates all four direction indicators and the side indicator lights simultaneously. It must only be used in an emergency to Headlight flasher warn drivers of other vehicles that you Pull stalk towards you to flash the have had to stop in an area where stop headlights. ping is prohibited or unexpected or that you are obliged to drive under special conditions. Depending on the vehicle the hazard warning lights may come on automati cally under heavy deceleration. You can switch them off by pressing switch ENG UD Avertisseurs sonore et lumineux BFB KFB Renault Audible and visual signals warning buzzer flash up to the end of the DU current page headlight flashers horn up to the end of the DU sounding the horn indicators current page up to the end of the DU horn lights current page hazard warning audible and visual signals up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU lights lighting direction indicators exterior up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU indicators signals and lights direction indicators up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU hazard warning lights signal up to the end of the DU hazard warning lights signal up to the end of the DU horn up to the end of the DU horn DRIVER S POSITION LEFT HAND DRIVE. ENG UD Poste de conduite direction gauche BFB KFB Renault Driving position controls up to the end of the DU driver s position up to the end of the DU dashboard up to the end of the DU DRIVER S POSITION LEFT HAND DRIVE The equipment fitted described below DEPENDS ON THE VERSION AND COUNTRY. Air vent. Switches for Gearstick. Demister outlet. hazard warning lights Engine start stop button vehicles Stalk for electric door locking. with card. direction indicator lights Passenger Airbag location. Ignition switch vehicles with key. exterior lights Glove compartment Control for adjusting steering rear fog lights. Controls for wheel height and reach. Driver Airbag and horn location. front seat heating Main switch and controls for cruise Instrument panel. ventilated front seats control speed limiter and adaptive Head up display. activation deactivation depend cruise control. Controls for ing on the vehicle of the ECO Handbrake. on board computer information mode Bonnet release control. read out and vehicle settings activation deactivation of the Controls for customisation menu parking distance control system headlight beam height remote remote radio and navigation activation deactivation of the adjustment system. Stop and Start function lighting rheostat for control in Steering column stalk for wind lane departure warning. struments screen and rear screen wash Accessories and multimedia sock steering wheel heating wiper. ets. luggage compartment lid re Heating or air conditioning con Storage compartment cup holder. lease trols. Controls for unlocking the fuel tank cover. Multimedia screen. activating deactivating the elec tronic parking brake activation deactivation of the function AUTOHOLD. MULTI SENSE or RS Drive con trol ENG UD Poste de conduite direction gauche BFB KFB Renault DRIVING POSITION RIGHT HAND DRIVE. ENG UD Poste de conduite direction droite BFB KFB Renault controls up to the end of the DU driver s position up to the end of the DU dashboard up to the end of the DU DRIVING POSITION RIGHT HAND DRIVE The equipment fitted described below DEPENDS ON THE VERSION AND COUNTRY. Air vent. Main switch and controls for cruise Control for adjusting steering Demister outlet. control speed limiter and adaptive wheel height and reach. Passenger Airbag location. cruise control. Engine start stop button vehicles Controls for Instrument panel. with card. front seat heating Driver Airbag and horn location. Switches for ventilated front seats Controls for hazard warning lights activation deactivation depend on board computer information electric door locking. ing on the vehicle of the ECO read out and vehicle settings Gearstick. mode customisation menu Storage compartment cup holders. activation deactivation of the remote radio and navigation Controls for parking distance control system system. activating deactivating the elec activation deactivation of the Steering column stalk for wind tronic parking brake Stop and Start function screen and rear screen wash activation deactivation of the lane departure warning. wiper. function AUTOHOLD. Heating or air conditioning con Controls for MULTI SENSE or RS Drive con trols. headlight beam height remote trol. Multimedia screen. adjustment Accessories and multimedia sock Stalk lighting rheostat for control in ets. direction indicator lights struments Glove compartment exterior lights steering wheel heating Handbrake. rear fog lights. luggage compartment lid re Bonnet release control. lease unlocking the fuel tank cover. Ignition switch vehicles with key ENG UD Poste de conduite direction droite BFB KFB Renault WARNING LIGHTS The display of information shown below DEPENDS ON THE VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND COUNTRY. A B C Instrument panel A B or C this comes In some cases the appearance of a on when the driver s door is opened. warning light is accompanied by a mes sage. If no lights or sounds are ap parent this indicates a fault The warning light in the instrument panel. This requires you to stop imme indicates that it is essential diately for your own safety to stop immediately as soon as traf as soon as traffic conditions Warning light means you fic conditions allow. Ensure that the allow. Switch off the engine and should drive very carefully to an vehicle is correctly immobilised and do not restart it. Call an approved authorised dealer as soon as contact an approved Dealer. Dealer. possible. If you fail to follow this recommendation you risk damag ing your vehicle ENG UD Tableau de bord t moins lumineux BFB KFB Renault instrument panel instrument panel up to the end of the DU warning lights up to the end of the DU driver s position up to the end of the DU trip computer and warning system up to the end of the DU indicators instrument panel up to the end of the DU display up to the end of the DU control instruments up to the end of the DU fuel level up to the end of the DU operating faults up to the end of the DU warning lights up to the end of the DU WARNING LIGHTS The display of information shown below DEPENDS ON THE VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND COUNTRY.  M Side light warning light Low fuel level warning light STOP light It appears in yellow when the This lights up when the igni ignition or the engine is switched on tion or engine is switched on and goes Main beam headlight tell then disappears after a few seconds out as soon as the engine is running. It tale k or is displayed in white depending on comes on with other warning lights and Dipped beam headlight tell the vehicle. If it comes on orange while or messages and is accompanied by tale driving and is accompanied by a beep a beep. f fill up with fuel as soon as possible. Rear fog lights tell tale It requires you to stop immediately for There is only approximately miles your own safety as soon as traffic con km worth of fuel left. Automatic main beam head ditions allow. Switch off the engine and light indicator light. Warning light do not restart it. c If it appears in red during driv Contact an approved Dealer. Left hand direction indicator ing and is accompanied by the tell tale b indicator light you must for your safety Right hand direction indica stop as soon as traffic conditions allow. tor tell tale Switch off the engine and do not restart it. Call an approved Dealer. If it appears in yellow during driving and is accompanied by the warn ing light visit an approved dealer as soon as possible. Meanwhile drive with care. If you fail to follow this rec ommendation you risk damaging your vehicle ENG UD Tableau de bord t moins lumineux BFB KFB Renault lights side lights current page lights main beam headlights current page lights dipped beam headlights current page lights direction indicator lights current page lights fog lights current page fuel filling current page WARNING LIGHTS The display of information shown below DEPENDS ON THE VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND COUNTRY. D Brake circuit fault warning Oil pressure warning light Warning light light It lights up when the ignition or This lights up when the ignition It lights up when the ignition or the the engine is switched on and goes off or engine is switched on and goes out engine is switched on and goes off after after a few seconds. as soon as the engine is running. It can a few seconds. light up in conjunction with other warn If it comes on on the road accompa ing lights and or messages on the in If it comes on during braking and is ac nied by the warning light and strument panel. companied by the warning light a beep stop immediately and cut the and a beep it indicates that the fluid ignition. It means you should drive very care level in the circuit is low or that there is fully to an approved dealer as soon as Check the oil level. If the level is normal a braking system fault. possible. If you fail to follow this recom the indicator light is being lit by some mendation you risk damaging your ve Stop as soon as traffic conditions allow thing else. hicle. and consult an approved dealer. x Call an approved Dealer. U Anti lock braking warning Battery charge warning light Variable power assisted light It lights up when the ignition or steering warning light It lights up when the ignition or the the engine is switched on and goes off It lights up when the ignition or the engine is switched on and goes off after after a few seconds. engine is switched on and goes off after a few seconds. If it comes on on the road accompa a few seconds. If it lights up when you are driving it in nied by the warning light and a dicates a fault in the anti lock braking If it comes on while driving alongside beep this indicates an overload or dis system. the warning light this means charge in the electrical circuit. there is a system fault. Braking will then be as normal without Stop as soon as traffic conditions allow the ABS. Contact an approved Dealer Contact an authorised dealer. and contact an approved Dealer. as soon as possible ENG UD Tableau de bord t moins lumineux BFB KFB Renault brake fluid current page brakes brake fluid level current page battery current page engine oil current page variable power assisted steering current page ABS current page WARNING LIGHTS The display of information shown below DEPENDS ON THE VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND COUNTRY. Warning light for the elec Coolant temperature warn Preheating warning light tronic stability program ing light Diesel version ESC and traction control system This lights up red when the ignition is This should come on when the igni It lights up when the ignition or the switched on or the engine is started. tion is switched on. It indicates that the engine is switched on and goes off after heater plugs are in operation. If it turns red stop and let the engine a few seconds. idle for a minute or two. It goes out when preheating is com There are several reasons for the warn plete. The engine can be started. The temperature should drop.  ing light to appear Otherwise stop the engine. Let the Gear change indicator Toxic Fume Filter System engine cool down before checking the This lights up to advise you to Warning Light coolant. change to a higher gear arrow pointing On vehicles that are equipped this light Contact an approved Dealer. upwards or lower gear arrow pointing comes on when the engine is started downwards Air bag warning light and depending on the vehicle when AUTOHOLD system warn the ignition is switched off while the This warning light will be dis ing. engine is in the standby phase. played on the instrument panel when then it goes out. the ignition is switched on or the engine Brake pedal warning light is started and will then go out after a If it lights up continuously consult This lights up when the brake your approved dealer as soon as few seconds. pedal should be depressed possible If it does not come on when the igni Handbrake on or elec tion is switched on or comes on when If it flashes reduce the engine speed tronic parking brake warn until the light stops flashing. Contact t th he e se yn sg ti en me.is running there is a fault in i ng light your approved Dealer as soon as Door s open warning light possible Contact your approved Dealer as soon as possible ENG UD Tableau de bord t moins lumineux BFB KFB Renault ESC electronic stability control electronic parking brake current page current page antipollution electronic parking brake advice current page current page doors coolant current page current page engine coolant current page airbags current page air bag current page diesel special features of diesel versions current page diesel current page speed gear change indicator current page brakesWARNING LIGHTS The display of information shown below DEPENDS ON THE VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND COUNTRY. Engine standby warning Lane departure system Mode warning light ECO light. warning light. This comes on when ECO Unavailability of engine Lane Keeping Assist system mode is activated standby warning light. warning light. Freewheel indicator light Warning light to indicate de Depending on vehicle. tected presence of hands on Indicator of failure or Warning light for reagent the steering wheel. unavailability of active emergency Tyre pressure monitoring braking. haust gale s v re el d ua cn td io nfa su yl sts te min. th e. e x system. Speed limiter warning lights Assisted parking brake fault. P ina gr t li ic gl he t f ilt e.r s y os r t em. w arn light. Cruise control warning lights. Adaptive cruise control warning lights ENG UD Tableau de bord t moins lumineux BFB KFB Renault speed limiter filter current page particle filter cruise control current page current page exhaust Stop Start current page current page reagent tyre pressure monitor current page current page assisted parking current page lane departure warning current page emergency active braking current page engine standby current page adaptive cruise control current page ECO driving current page freewheel current page WARNING LIGHTS The display of information shown below DEPENDS ON THE VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND COUNTRY. Driver s seat belt reminder C and depending on the vehi cle front passenger seat belt re minder. On display C Passenger airbag ON. Passenger airbag OFF ENG UD Tableau de bord t moins lumineux BFB KFB Renault air bag current page seat belts current page DISPLAYS AND INDICATORS Instrument panel in miles option to switch to km h Vehicles not fitted with a multimedia screen With the ignition off press the switch as many times as required to reach the vehicle tab press the or control repeatedly to access Settings then press OK repeat the same operation to access DASHBOARD then Units. Engine oil level low warning Vehicles fitted with a multimedia screen. When the engine is started the instru ment panel display alerts you if the min Please see the multimedia instructions imum oil level is reached for information on how to select the unit. The first time the warning appears it Note in both cases once the battery can be cleared by pressing OK. is switched off the on board computer automatically returns to the original unit Subsequent warnings will disappear of measurement. automatically after around seconds. To return to the previous mode repeat the same operation. Please refer to the multimedia instruc tions for more information ENG UD Tableau de bord afficheurs et indicateurs BFB KFB Renault indicators instrument panel up to the end of the DU display up to the end of the DU instrument panel up to the end of the DU control instruments up to the end of the DU warning lights up to the end of the DU engine oil level current page DISPLAYS AND INDICATORS A Instrument panel A Speedometer Overspeed buzzer Depending on the style selected the Depe nding on the vehicle and country It lights up when the ignition is switched display varies. on. In some cases the appearance of a the warning light is displayed warning light is accompanied by a mes Rev counter and a beep sounds. This beep sounds sage. graduations x as soon as the vehicle is travelling at You can customise your instrument This is displayed differently according over mph km h. This warning panel with the content and colours of to how the instrument panel is custom light remains lit for as long as the ve your choice. ised. Depending on the style selected hicle is travelling at over mph For vehicles fitted with a multimedia it may not be displayed. km h. screen refer to the equipment instruc tions. Total mileage recorder. For vehicles not fitted with a multimedia screen Trip computer. Estimated mileage with remaining fuel The value is displayed after driving metres ENG UD Tableau de bord afficheurs et indicateurs BFB KFB Renault screen navigation display current page screen navigation screen current page fuel level current page trip computer and warning system current page vehicle range current page overspeed buzzer current page range with fuel current page DISPLAYS AND INDICATORS Fuel gauge If the levMel is at the minimum the warn ing light in the indicator appears in yellow accompanied by a beep. Fill up as soon as possible. Multimedia information Coolant temperature indicator Depending on the vehicle you can dis In normal use indicator should be play information from the multimedia before area. Under intensive op screen the compass telephone navi erating conditions the needle may ap gation etc proach this zone. This is not serious Please refer to the multimedia instruc unless the warning light comes tions for further information. on accompanied by a message on the Driving style indicator. instrument panel and a beep ENG UD Tableau de bord afficheurs et indicateurs BFB KFB Renault indicators instrument panel up to the end of the DU display up to the end of the DU instrument panel up to the end of the DU fuel level current page coolant current page engine coolant current page indicators driving style current page DISPLAYS AND INDICATORS B Instrument panel B Coolant temperature indicator Overspeed buzzer It lights up when the ignition is switched In normal use indicator should be Depe nding on the vehicle and country on. In some cases the appearance of a before area. Under intensive op warning light is accompanied by a mes erating conditions the needle may ap the warning light is displayed and a beep sounds. This sounds as sage. proach this zone. This is not serious soon as the vehicle exceeds mph Depending on the vehicle you can cus unless the warning light comes km h. The warning light remains tomise your instrument panel with the on accompanied by a message on the on as long as the vehicle speed is over content and colours of your choice. instrument panel and a beep. mph km h. For vehicles fitted with a multimedia screen refer to the equipment instruc Speedometer Rev counter tions. Depending on the style selected the graduations x For vehicles not fitted with a multimedia display varies. This is displayed differently according screen to how the instrument panel is custom ised. Depending on the style selected it may not be displayed. Driving style indicator ENG UD Tableau de bord afficheurs et indicateurs BFB KFB Renault screen navigation display current page screen navigation screen current page coolant current page engine coolant current page overspeed buzzer current page indicators driving style current page speed overspeed warning current page DISPLAYS AND INDICATORS Multimedia information Fuel gauge Depending on the vehicle you can dis If the levMel is at the minimum the warn play information from the multimedia screen the compass telephone navi ing light in the indicator appears in gation etc orange accompanied by a beep. Fill up Please refer to the multimedia instruc as soon as possible. tions for more information. Estimated mileage with remaining fuel The value is displayed after driving metres Total mileage recorder. Trip computer ENG UD Tableau de bord afficheurs et indicateurs BFB KFB Renault vehicle range current page range with fuel current page trip computer and warning system current page fuel level current page level information fuel current page DISPLAYS AND INDICATORS C Instrument panel C Rev counter Trip computer graduations x. It lights up when the ignition is switched on. In some cases the appearance of a Coolant temperature indicator Estimated mileage with remaining warning light is accompanied by a mes fuel sage. In normal use the indicator should The value is displayed after driving be before the red zone. Under in Depending on the vehicle you can cus tensive operating conditions the metres. tomise your instrument panel with col needle may approach this zone. This. ours of your choice. is not serious unless the warning light F syo sr t ev meh i rc ele fes r f ti ott e thd e w hi ath n da b on oa kv i fg oa r t tio hn e comes on accompanied by a T o t a.l m ileage recorder message on the instrument panel and equipment. a beep. For vehicle not fitted with a navigation system ENG UD Tableau de bord afficheurs et indicateurs BFB KFB Renault instrument panel current page coolant current page engine coolant current page trip computer and warning system current page vehicle range current page range with fuel current page DISPLAYS AND INDICATORS Fuel gauge If the levMel is at the minimum the warn ing light in the indicator appears in orange accompanied by a beep. Fill up as soon as possible. Driving style indicator. Speedometer Overspeed buzzer Depe nding on the vehicle and country the warning light is displayed and a beep sounds. This sounds as soon as the vehicle exceeds mph km h. The warning light remains on as long as the vehicle speed is over mph km h ENG UD Tableau de bord afficheurs et indicateurs BFB KFB Renault indicators driving style current page speed overspeed warning current page overspeed buzzer current page fuel level current page DISPLAYS AND INDICATORS You can adjust some settings from the multimedia screen. Refer to the multimedia instructions. Adjusting the display information height Depending on your driving position you can raise or lower the information on the display. Adjusting the display brightness You can adjust the brightness day or night mode automatically the brightness will Good information visibility can be af vary according to the exterior light fected by Head up display level the seat position manually the brightness automati The display details driving and navi the presence of an object placed cally switches with the activation de gation information from the instrument on the opened display activation of the lights. panel and the multimedia screen. the polarisation of some spectacle In both cases the day mode varies If fitted to the vehicle this comes on lenses based on the outdoor brightness. when the engine is started and is re extreme weather conditions rain tracted when the engine is switched off. snow very strong sunlight etc In the event of contradictory information between the table and head up display For safety reasons carry multimedia screen. Refer to out any adjustments when the information displayed on the in Do not manually force the opening the vehicle is stationary. strument panel. closure of the head up display ENG UD Tableau de bord afficheurs et indicateurs BFB KFB Renault screen fold away screen current page head up display current page DISPLAYS AND INDICATORS Operating faults In the event of a malfunction the dis play fails to open when the engine is started or the display retracts with the engine running following an object im pacting the display stop and restart the engine or from the multimedia screen change the display opening settings. If there is still a problem contact an au thorised dealer. With the display opened or closed no object should be placed on it or in its housing. Do not use solvents detergents or an abrasive cloth to clean the dis play. Only use a microfibre wipe ENG UD Tableau de bord afficheurs et indicateurs BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page head up display current page TRIP COMPUTER general information A B C Trip computer A B or C Depending on the vehicle this includes the following functions distance travelled journey settings information messages operating fault messages con nected to the warning light warning messages connected to the warning light vehicle settings customisation menu All these functions are described on the following pages ENG UD Ordinateur de bord g n ralit s BFB KFB Renault control instruments up to the end of the DU indicators instrument panel up to the end of the DU trip computer and warning system up to the end of the DU instrument panel up to the end of the DU warning lights up to the end of the DU instrument panel messages up to the end of the DU operating faults up to the end of the DU menu for customising the vehicle settings. up to the end of the DU TRIP COMPUTER general information A A Vehicle fitted with trip computer A The functions are distributed in zones and. The location of the zones differs depending on the style selected. Press the switch to browse between menus and select functions by repeat edly pressing the or switch then if necessary use the switch to confirm OK ENG UD Ordinateur de bord g n ralit s BFB KFB Renault TRIP COMPUTER general information B C Vehicle fitted with trip computer B Vehicle fitted with trip computer C The functions will be distributed in Press the switch as many times as re zones and. quired to reach the Vehicle tab. Press the switch to browse between Press repeatedly using the or con menus and select functions by repeat trol then if necessary use the switch edly pressing the or switch then if to confirm OK. necessary use the switch to confirm OK ENG UD Ordinateur de bord g n ralit s BFB KFB Renault TRIP COMPUTER general information Selections Interpreting some of the the display depends on the vehicle values displayed after equipment and country resetting a Trip log operating faults and infor The values showing average fuel con mation message readout sumption range and average speed will become more stable and reliable b current fuel consumption and aver the further you travel after pressing the age fuel consumption reset button. c trip mileage recorder and average For the first few miles after pressing the speed reset key you will notice that the range d Reset the tyre pressure increases as you travel. This range e set the time takes into account the average fuel con sumption since the last time the reset f distance before service button was pressed. However average Distance before service consumption can decrease when Resetting the trip mileage Mileage before oil change. the vehicle stops accelerating recorder and journey g Estimated range with remaining rea parameters reset button the engine reaches its operating gent. temperature if the engine was cold With one of the trip parameters se when the reset key was pressed lected as the display press and hold when driving from an urban area the switch OK until the display onto the open road. resets to zero. Automatic resetting of the journey parameters Resetting occurs automatically when the maximum value of any of the pa rameters is exceeded ENG UD Ordinateur de bord g n ralit s BFB KFB Renault trip computer clock setting current page fuel consumption current page tyre pressure current page mileage before service current page maintenance mileage before service current page additional tank capacity current page TRIP COMPUTER AND WARNING SYSTEM journey parameters The display of information shown below DEPENDS ON THE VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND COUNTRY. Examples of selections Interpreting the display selected a Trip log. Successive display Vehicle Systems OK information messages passenger airbag OFF etc. operating fault messages Check injection etc b Current fuel consumption L This value is displayed after a speed of approximately mph km h is reached. Average fuel consumption since the last reset. The value is displayed after having travelled at least metres since the last. L reset. km c Mileage recorder Distance travelled since the last reset. Average speed since the last reset km h The value is displayed after driving metres ENG UD Ordinateur de bord param tres de voyage BFB KFB Renault trip computer and warning system up to the end of the DU warning lights up to the end of the DU instrument panel messages up to the end of the DU instrument panel up to the end of the DU TRIP COMPUTER AND WARNING SYSTEM journey parameters The display of information shown below DEPENDS ON THE VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND COUNTRY. Examples of selections Interpreting the display selected Tyre pressure init. d Reset the tyre pressure. long press. e Setting the time ENG UD Ordinateur de bord param tres de voyage BFB KFB Renault tyre pressure current page clock setting current page TRIP COMPUTER AND WARNING SYSTEM journey parameters The display of information shown below DEPENDS ON THE VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND COUNTRY. Examples of selections On board computer with mileage Interpreting the display selected before service message f Service distance. Mileage before service Service in With the ignition on and engine not running access the Mileage km months before service information. When the distance value approaches its limit there are several possible scenarios If the range is less than miles km or one month the message Service due is displayed accompanied by the nearest Service due in term distance or time km days range equal to miles km or date of service reached the mes sage Service Required is displayed accompanied by the warning light. The vehicle requires a service as soon as possible. Service Required Reset to reset the distance before the next service press and hold button OK for approximately seconds until the display shows the mileage before service permanently. Note If a service is performed without changing the engine oil only the mileage before the next service should be reset. In the event of an oil change both the distance before the next service and the next oil change should be reset ENG UD Ordinateur de bord param tres de voyage BFB KFB Renault maintenance mileage before service up to the end of the DU mileage before service up to the end of the DU TRIP COMPUTER AND WARNING SYSTEM journey parameters The display of information shown below DEPENDS ON THE VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND COUNTRY. Examples of selections On board computer with distance Interpreting the display selected before next service message cntd. f Service distance. Oil change in Mileage before service With the ignition on and the engine not running access the mileage km months information to display the mileage before the next oil change. Depending on the vehicle the mileage before an oil change varies according to the driving style frequent driving at low speed door to door journeys extensive use at idling speed towing a trailer etc The distance remaining until the next oil change can therefore decrease more quickly in some cases than the actual distance travelled. Reset to reset the distance before the next service press and hold button OK for approximately seconds until the display shows the mileage before oil change permanently. Note If a service is performed without changing the engine oil only the mileage before the next service should be reset. In the event of an oil change both the distance before the next service and the next oil change should be reset. Top Up AdBlue before km g Estimated range with remaining reagent ENG UD Ordinateur de bord param tres de voyage BFB KFB Renault additional tank capacity current page TRIP COMPUTER AND WARNING SYSTEM information messages These can help in the vehicle starting phase or give information about a selection or a driving status. Examples of information messages are given in the following pages. Examples of messages Interpreting the display selected Parking Brake ON Indicates that the parking brake has been applied. Turn the steering wheel slightly whilst pressing the vehicle start button to unlock the steer Turn Steering Wheel START ing column. Vehicle Checks in Progress Displayed with the ignition on when the vehicle is running self diagnostics ENG UD Ordinateur de bord messages d information BFB KFB Renault trip computer and warning system up to the end of the DU warning lights up to the end of the DU instrument panel messages up to the end of the DU instrument panel up to the end of the DU parking brake current page starting current page TRIP COMPUTER AND WARNING SYSTEM operating fault messages These appear with the warning light and mean that you should drive very carefully to an authorised dealer as soon as possible. If you fail to follow this recommendation you risk damaging your vehicle. They disappear when the display selection key is pressed or after several seconds and are stored in the computer log. The warning light stays on. Examples of operating fault messages are given in the following pages. Examples of messages Interpreting the display selected Clean Diesel Filter Indicates the presence of water in the diesel filter contact an approved Dealer as soon as possible. Check vehicle Indicates a fault in one of the pedal sensors battery management system or oil level sensor. WARNING Check Airbag Indicates a fault in the restraint system in addition to the seat belts. In the event of an accident it is possible that they may not be triggered. Check Anti Pollution System Indicates a fault in the vehicle s particle filter system. Indicate s a fault in the emissions reduction system when it is accompanied by the warning light ENG UD Ordinateur de bord messages d anomalies de fonctionnement BFB KFB Renault trip computer and warning system up to the end of the DU instrument panel messages up to the end of the DU warning lights up to the end of the DU instrument panel up to the end of the DU filter diesel filter current page air bag current page airbags current page advice on antipollution current page operating faults current page TRIP COMPUTER AND WARNING SYSTEM warning message These appear with the warning light and require you to stop immediately for your own safety as soon as traf fic conditions allow. Stop your engine and do not restart it. Contact an approved Dealer. Examples of warning messages are given in the following pages. Note the messages appear on the display either individually or alternately when there are several messages to be displayed and may be accompanied by a warning light and or a beep. Examples of messages Interpreting the display selected WARNING Engine Failure Risk Indicates an injection fault the vehicle s engine has overheated or there is a serious engine fault. WARNING Braking System Indicates a fault in the braking system. WARNING Electric System Indicates a fault in the vehicle battery charging circuit alternator etc Puncture Indicates that at least one wheel is punctured or severely underinflated ENG UD Ordinateur de bord messages d alertes BFB KFB Renault trip computer and warning system current page warning lights current page instrument panel messages current page instrument panel current page puncture up to the end of the DU beep up to the end of the DU operating faults up to the end of the DU VEHICLE SETTINGS CUSTOMISATION MENU Adjusting the settings d Welcome External welcome Select a menu then the function to be Automatic fold out of mirrors modified the display depends on the Interior welcome vehicle equipment and country Courtesy light auto mode. a Driving Depending on the function select Indicator volume. ON or OFF to activate or deacti b Access vate Unlocking the driver s door or Lock doors during driving a duration to adjust the time the lights Opening closing in hands free are switched on e.g. for the Follow mode me home lighting function. Remote locking Approach unlock Please refer to the multimedia instruc ing tions for further information. Distance locking sound Silent mode Depending on the vehicle equipment Automatic locking. this function allows you to activate de c Wiping and lighting activate and adjust some of the vehi Follow me home lighting cle s functions. Wiping in reverse Automatic front wiping Vehicles fitted with a Wipe after wash. multimedia screen Accessing the settings menu Refer to the multimedia instructions for information on accessing the various settings. For safety reasons carry out any adjustments when the vehicle is stationary ENG UD Menu de personnalisation des r glages du v hicule BFB KFB Renault vehicle settings customisation menu central door locking settings current page up to the end of the DU driving customised vehicle settings current page up to the end of the DU lighting locking the doors see me home current page current page multimedia equipment current page windscreen washer wiper current page configuration menu up to the end of the DU menu for customising the vehicle settings. up to the end of the DU customising the vehicle settings up to the end of the DU doors current page settings configuration menu up to the end of the DU VEHICLE SETTINGS CUSTOMISATION MENU Adjusting the settings d DRIVING ASSIST Lane departure warning sensitiv Navigate using the or control to ity select the function to be modified and Lane departure warning vibration press OK to confirm display may Lane keeping assist sensitivity vary according to vehicle equipment Blind spot warning and country Fatigue warning a DASHBOARD Active braking Language Overspeed warning Unit Distance warning. Style e LIGHTING Colour. Courtesy light auto mode b VEHICLE Automatic follow me home light Rear windscreen wiping in re ing verse gear Follow me home lighting XX sec Automatic windscreen wiping onds. Vehicles not fitted with a Front rear drip wiping function f ACCESS multimedia screen External welcome Lock doors during driving Free wheel in ECO mode Opening closing in hands free Accessing the settings menu on Indicator volume. mode display c PARKING ASSIST Unlocking the driver s door only With the vehicle stopped press the Beep sound volume Automatic re locking switch as many times as required to front obstacle detection Silent locking reach the Vehicle tab. Press repeat side obstacle detection Automatic opening closing edly on the or switch to access the rear obstacle detection. Automatic deployment of door Settings menu then confirm by press mirrors. ing OK. g RESET ENG UD Menu de personnalisation des r glages du v hicule BFB KFB Renault parking distance control current page up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU central door locking current page driving current page lighting see me home current page windscreen washer wiper current page daytime running lights current page trip computer and warning system current page doors current page instrument panel up to the end of the DU locking the doors VEHICLE SETTINGS CUSTOMISATION MENU function activated function deactivated Once a line has been selected press OK to adjust the function. If you select either PARKING ASSIST then VOLUME or DASHBOARD then LANGUAGE you will have to make a further selection sound volume of the parking distance control or in strument panel language. In this case make your selection and confirm it by pressing OK the selected value is shown by a in front of the line. To exit the menu press the or switch to access BACK and confirm by pressing OK. It may be neces sary to carry out this operation more than once. The vehicle settings personalisation menu cannot be used when driv ing. At a speed exceeding mph km h the instrument panel dis play switches automatically back to trip computer and warning system mode ENG UD Menu de personnalisation des r glages du v hicule BFB KFB Renault POWER ASSISTED STEERING Never drive with an inadequately Note the power assisted steering de charged battery. pends on the driving mode selected in the MULTI SENSE menu Variable power assisted steering The variable power assisted steering system is equipped with an electronic control system which alters the level of assistance to suit the vehicle speed. Steering is made easier during parking manoeuvres for added comfort while the force needed to steer increases progressively as the speed rises for enhanced safety at high speeds. Special feature of Stop and Never leave the steering wheel at Start full lock while stationary. Depending on the vehicle when the engine switches to standby the steer ing assistance may no longer be opera tional. In this case it returns to its origi With the engine switched off or if nal state when the engine is restarted there is a system fault it is still pos or when the speed moves above sible to turn the steering wheel. The. mph km h hill slope etc force required will be greater. Do not switch off the engine when driving downhill and as a general rule when driving the power assisted steering and brake cannot operate normally ENG UD Direction assist e BFB KFB Renault Power assisted steering power assisted steering current page power assisted steering current page Stop Start current page variable power assisted steering current page Multi Sense current page CLOCK AND EXTERIOR TEMPERATURE Vehicles fitted with a multimedia Vehicles not fitted with a multimedia Set the hour using control or then screen screen press OK to confirm. The time and exterior temperature are Press the switch as many times as re Set the minutes using control or displayed on the multimedia screen. quired to reach the Vehicle tab. then press OK to confirm. Refer to the multimedia instructions. Repeatedly press control or to set the clock. Press and hold switch OK until the time display flashes ENG UD Heure et temp rature ext rieure BFB KFB Renault Clock and outdoor temperature clock up to the end of the DU clock up to the end of the DU external temperature up to the end of the DU control instruments up to the end of the DU multimedia equipment up to the end of the DU CLOCK AND EXTERIOR TEMPERATURE External temperature indicator Depending on the vehicle If the electrical supply is cut battery dis Special note connected broken supply wire When the external temperature is be etc. the clock will automatically tween C and C the C figures go back to the right time after a few flash indicates risk of ice. minutes once the system is capable of receiving information GPS. External temperature indicator As ice formation is related to climatic exposure local air humidity and temperature the external temperature alone is not sufficient to detect ice ENG UD Heure et temp rature ext rieure BFB KFB Renault indicators exterior temperature current page REAR VIEW MIRRORS Folding rear view mirrors Welcome and goodbye function The door mirrors automatically fold in Refer to the multimedia instructions to when the vehicle is locked switch in access the welcome and goodbye func position B. tion. In any case you can make the door Activate or deactivate the function by mirrors fold in switch in position C or selecting ON or OFF. fold out switch in position A. Depending on the selected choice the Automatic mode is then deactivated. door mirrors will fold out To reactivate it set the switch to po when the ignition is next switched on sition B. function deactivated A when the card is detected or the ve hicle is unlocked function activated. B C Exterior rear view mirrors Adjustment Select the rear view mirror using switch then use button to adjust it to the desired position. Heated door mirrors Mirror de icing is carried out at the same Objects observed in the time as rear screen de icing door mirror glass are ac tually closer than they appear. For your safety take this into account in order to correctly assess the distance before For safety reasons carry any manoeuvre. out any adjustments when the vehicle is not being driven ENG UD R troviseurs BFB KFB Renault Rear view mirrors rear view mirrors up to the end of the DU REAR VIEW MIRRORS Interior rear view mirror Rear view mirror with lever When driving at night to avoid being dazzled by the headlights of the vehicle behind depress the little lever located behind rear view mirror. Rear view mirror without lever The rear view mirror automatically darkens when you are being followed by a vehicle using main beam head lights or in very bright lighting. The front passenger airbag acti vation deactivation information is shown on the display ENG UD R troviseurs BFB KFB Renault HEADLIGHT BEAM ADJUSTMENT Examples of positions for adjusting control A according to the load doors Estate doors Driver alone or with front A passenger All seats occupied On vehicles fitted with this function control A allows you to adjust the height Driver with passengers and of the beams according to the load. luggage or load reaching the maximum permissible all up Turn control A downwards to lower the weight headlights and upwards to raise them. Driver without passengers and luggage or load reaching the or maximum permissible all up weight depending on the vehicle For vehicles not fitted with a con trol A the headlight adjustment is automatic depending on the vehi The table below gives some examples. In all cases adjust control A according to cle load. the vehicle load so that the road can be seen and other drivers are not dazzled ENG UD R glage des faisceaux BFB KFB Renault Headlight beam adjustment lighting exterior up to the end of the DU lights adjusting up to the end of the DU lights adjustment up to the end of the DU headlight beam adjustment up to the end of the DU signals and lights up to the end of the DU electric beam height adjustment up to the end of the DU lights adjustment of headlight beam height up to the end of the DU EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND SIGNALS Depending on the vehicle the dipped beam headlights will appear automati cally after several sweeps of the wind screen wiper blades.  k Side lights Dipped beam headlights Turn ring until the symbol is opposite mark. Manual operation This indicator light on the instrument Turn ring until the symbol is opposite panel comes on. mark. This indicator light on the in strument panel comes on. Daytime running lights Automatic operation function depending on the vehicle The daytime running lights come on Turn ring until the AUTO symbol is op automatically with no action on stalk posite mark with the engine running when the engine is started and they go the dipped beam headlights switch on off once the engine is switched off. or off automatically depending on the brightness of the light outside without any action on stalk ENG UD Eclairages et signalisations ext rieures BFB KFB Renault Exterior lighting and signals lighting instrument panel exterior up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU lights side lights current page signals and lights up to the end of the DU lights main beam headlights current page lights dipped beam headlights current page AUTO mode current page daytime running lights up to the end of the DU lights fog lights up to the end of the DU lighting EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND SIGNALS During deactivation of the main beam The main beam headlights come on au headlights the dipped beam headlights tomatically if return to their original position. exterior light is weak no other vehicles or lighting are de tected Automatic main beam the vehicle speed is above approxi headlights mately mph km h. Depending on the vehicle this system If any of the above conditions are not switches the main beam headlights on fulfilled the system switches to dipped and off automatically. It uses a camera beam headlights. located behind the interior rear view Note make sure the windscreen is not mirror to detect vehicles that are being followed and those coming in the oppo obscured dirt mud snow condensa tion etc site direction. Main beam headlights With the engine running and the dipped beam headlights lit push stalk. This indicator light on the instru ment panel comes on. The system may encounter difficul To return to the dipped headlight posi ties under certain conditions inclu tion pull stalk towards you again. ding extreme weather conditions rain snow fog etc. obstruction in front of the wind screen or camera when a following or oncoming ve hicle has weak or hidden lighting incorrect settings for the front headlights reflective systems. ENG UD Eclairages et signalisations ext rieures BFB KFB Renault lights main beam headlights current page AUTO mode current page lights dipped beam headlights current page adjusting your driving position current page EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND SIGNALS To deactivate automatic main beam headlights pull stalk or turn ring to a position other than AUTO. Warning light goes out on the in strument panel. Note make sure the windscreen is not obscured dirt mud snow condensa tion etc Operating faults Using the portable naviga When the message Check Automatic tion system at night in the Lighting appears on the instrument windscreen area below the Automatic main beam panel the system is deactivated. camera may disturb the op headlights continued Consult an approved dealer. eration of the automatic main beam headlights system risk of reflection on the windscreen. Activation deactivation To activate the automatic main beam headlights turn the ring until the AUTO symbol is opposite the mark The automatic main beam push the stalk. headlights system should under no circumstances be used to replace driver atten Warning light comes on the in tion and responsibility with regard strument panel. to vehicle lighting and adapting to light visibility and traffic conditions ENG UD Eclairages et signalisations ext rieures BFB KFB Renault lights main beam headlights current page AUTO mode current page operating faults current page EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND SIGNALS Lights on reminder buzzer Welcome and goodbye function If the lights are on after the engine is switched off a warning beep sounds depending on the vehicle when the driver s door is opened to Once the function is activated the day warn you that the lights are still on. time running lights and the rear side lights will light up automatically upon detection of the card or when the vehi Operating faults cle is unlocked. When the message WARNING Check They switch off automatically Lighting with warning light k approximately one minute after light is displayed and warning light ing up flashes on the instrument panel this in when starting the engine based on dicates that there is a lighting fault. the position of the lighting stalk Consult an authorised dealer. or Switching off the lights upon locking the vehicle. The lights will go out automatically when the engine is switched off the Activating deactivating the function driver s door is opened or the vehicle For activation or deactivation of the ex is locked. In this case the next time ternal welcome refer to the multimedia the engine is started the lights will be instructions. switched back on according to the posi tion of the ring. Select ON or OFF. Note if the fog lights are lit the lights are not switched off automatically ENG UD Eclairages et signalisations ext rieures BFB KFB Renault lights daytime running lights current page lights on warning buzzer current page operating faults current page multimedia equipment current page lights dipped beam headlights current page EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND SIGNALS With the engine lights switched off the ring in AUTO pull the lever to wards you the side lights and dipped beam headlights will switch on for ap proximatelyk seconds along with the and warning lights on the instrument panel. To increase this duration you may pull the stalk up to four times total time re stricted to approximately two minutes. The message Follow me home for along with the time the lights will be on for is displayed on the instrument panel to confirm this action. You can then lock your vehicle. See me home lighting To switch off the lights before they go function out automatically turn ring to any po This function enables you to briefly sition then return it to position AUTO. switch on the side lights and dipped beam headlights e.g. to provide light when opening a gate ENG UD Eclairages et signalisations ext rieures BFB KFB Renault lighting see me home current page lights side lights current page lights dipped beam headlights current page EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND SIGNALS Rear fog lights Switching off the lights Turn centre ring on the stalk Turn the centre ring again until the until the symbol faces mark then re symbol is opposite the symbol for the lease it. fog lights. The corresponding indicator light on the instrument panel goes out. Operation of the fog lights depends on the exterior lighting selected and an in The rear fog lights switch off when the dicator light will light up on the instru exterior lights are switched off. ment panel. Do not forget to switch off the fog lights when they are no longer needed to avoid inconveniencing other road users. g Front fog lights Turn centre ring on the stalk until the symbol faces mark then release it. Operation of the fog lights depends on the exterior lighting position selected and an indicator light will light up on the When driving in fog or snow or instrument panel. when transporting objects which are higher than the roof the headlights do not come on automatically. Switching on the fog lights remains the responsibility of the driver the indicator lights on the instrument panel inform you whether the fog lights are lit indicator light on or not indicator light not on ENG UD Eclairages et signalisations ext rieures BFB KFB Renault WINDSCREEN WASH WIPE A B Efficiency of a wiper blade Check the condition of the wiper C blades. How long they last depends on you D it must remain clean clean the E blade and the screen regularly with soapy water do not use it when the screen is dry free it from the screen when it has Vehicle fitted with intermittent Special note not been used for a long time. windscreen wipers When driving the vehicle the wiping In all cases replace it as soon as speed slows down whenever the ve it begins to lose efficiency approxi A single sweep hicle stops. For example fast wiping mately once a year A short push will trigger one sweep speed will slow to normal wiping speed. of the wipers. As soon as the vehicle moves off B stop wiping will return to the speed originally Precaution for using the C intermittent wiping selected. wipers The wipers will pause for several If stalk is operated it overrides and in freezing or snowy weather seconds between sweeps. It is cancels the automatic function. clear the screen before starting possible to change the time be the wipers risk of motor over tween sweeps by turning ring. heating D slow continuous wiping ensure that no objects are ob E fast continuous wiping structing the travel of the blade. Positions A C and D are accessible with the ignition on. Position E is accessible only when the engine is running ENG UD Essuie vitre Lave vitre avant BFB KFB Renault Washers wipers wipers up to the end of the DU windscreen washer wiper up to the end of the DU windscreen washer up to the end of the DU wiper blades current page wipers blades current page precautions during use up to the end of the DU WINDSCREEN WASH WIPE When activating automatic wiping or when increasing sensitivity one sweep of the blades is performed. A Note F the rain sensor is only intended as a B driving aid. In the event of reduced visibility the driver should manually C activate the wipers. In foggy weather or during snowfalls wiping is not au D tomatically triggered and remains under the driver s control E G in the event of temperatures below zero automatic wiping is not acti vated when the vehicle is started. It is automatically activated as soon as Vehicle fitted with front C automatic wiper function the vehicle exceeds a certain speed windscreen wiper rain sensor When this position is selected the approximately mph km h system detects water on the wind The rain sensor is located on the winds screen and triggers the wipers at a do not activate automatic wiping in creen in front of the interior rear view suitable wiping speed. It is possi dry weather mirror. ble to change the triggering thresh fully de ice the windscreen before old and the time sweeps by turning activating automatic wiping. A single sweep ring A short push will trigger one sweep F minimum sensitivity of the wipers. G maximum sensitivity. B stop The higher the sensitivity the quic ker the wipers will react and the faster the wipe ENG UD Essuie vitre Lave vitre avant BFB KFB Renault WINDSCREEN WASH WIPE Operating fault Special note In the event of a malfunction of the au When driving the vehicle the wiping tomatic wiping the wiper is set to inter speed slows down whenever the vehi A mittent wiping. Contact an authorised cle stops. For example fast wiping dealer. speed will slow to normal wiping speed. The operation of the rain sensor can be B As soon as the vehicle moves off wiping will return to the speed originally disturbed in the event of C selected. damaged windscreen wipers a film If stalk is operated it overrides and of water or traces left by a blade in cancels the automatic function. D the sensor s detection zone may in crease the response time of the au E Precautions tomatic wiper or increase the wiping In the event of ice check whether the frequency blades are stuck to the windscreen a windscreen with any chip or crack before operating the wiping mecha level with the sensor or a windscreen nism. If you activate the wipers while D slow continuous wiping covered in dust dirt insects ice the the blades are stuck down with ice use of washing wax and water repel you may risk damaging both the E fast continuous wiping lent chemicals the windscreen wiper blade and the wiper motor. will be less sensitive or may even not Do not activate the wipers on a dry react at all. screen. This will lead to the prema ture wear or damage to the blades. Positions A and D are accessible with the ignition on. Positions C and E are accessible only with the engine running ENG UD Essuie vitre Lave vitre avant BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page WINDSCREEN WASH WIPE Specific front wiper position Note after replacement to reposition service position the blades correctly make sure the blades are resting on the windscreen This position enables the blades to be switch on the ignition and activate the lifted to remove them from the winds wiper control. creen. It may be useful to to clean the blades to release the blades from the winds creen in winter replace the blades In the event of obstacles on the With the ignition on and the engine off windscreen dirt snow ice etc. lower the windscreen wiper stalk fully clean the windscreen including the fast continuous wipe position. The central area located behind the inte wiper arms stop in a position away from rior rear view mirror before starting the bonnet. the wipers risk of motor overheat ing. To return the blades to position make sure they have been placed on the If an object is preventing a blade windscreen then move the stalk to po from moving it may stop functio sition B stop with the ignition on. ning. Remove the obstacle and reactivate the wiper using the wiper Before switching on the ignition stalk. place the wipers on the windscreen. Otherwise there may a risk of damage to the bonnet or the wipers when they are switched on. Before any action involving the windscreen washing the vehicle de icing cleaning the windscreen etc. return stalk to position B stop. Risk of injury and or damage ENG UD Essuie vitre Lave vitre avant BFB KFB Renault wipers blades current page wiper blades current page WINDSCREEN WASH WIPE Note in temperatures below zero the washer liquid may freeze on the wind screen reducing visibility. Heat the A windscreen using the demister control before cleaning. B C D E Windscreen washer With the ignition on pull stalk then release. A brief pull will trigger a single sweep of the wipers in addition to the wind screen washer. A longer pull will trigger three sweeps of the wipers followed a few seconds later by a fourth in addition to the wind screen washer. When working in the engine compartment ensure that the windscreen wiper stalk is in position B stop. Risk of injury ENG UD Essuie vitre Lave vitre avant BFB KFB Renault windscreen washer current page WINDSCREEN WASH WIPE Note to ensure the headlight wash ers operate correctly in winter remove snow from the jet trims and de ice the A jet trims using an aerosol de icer. You are recommended to regularly B remove dirt encrusted on the headlight glass. C When the minimum windscreen washer fluid level is reached the headlight D washer system may be deprimed. E Fill the windscreen washer fluid and then activate the windscreen washer with the engine running to reprime the system. Headlight washers Headlights on On equipped vehicles hold stalk pulled towards you for about seconds the headlight washers and winds creen washers will be activated at the same time. The headlight washers are also activa ted after three prolonged movements on the front windscreen washer control. When working in the engine compartment ensure that the windscreen wiper stalk is in position B stop. Risk of injury ENG UD Essuie vitre Lave vitre avant BFB KFB Renault headlight washer current page REAR SCREEN WASH WIPE To stop the operation pivot ring again. Note when washing using a roller type car wash return the ring on the stalk to the stop position to deactivate automatic wiping. Follow usage recommendations. Efficiency of a wiper blade Check the condition of the wiper blades. How long they last depends on you it must remain clean clean the blade and the screen regularly with soapy water do not use it when the screen is dry free it from the screen when it has Y Rear screen wiper not been used for a long time. With the ignition on rotate the In all cases replace it as soon as ring on the lever until the symbol is it begins to lose efficiency approxi opposite the reference point mately once a year stop intermittent wiping. Do not use the wiper arm to open or Precautions for using the The blade will pause for several close the tailgate. wipers seconds between sweeps. Wiping In freezing or snowy weather frequency varies with vehicle clear the screen before starting speed Before any action involving the wipers risk of motor over the rear screen washing slow continuous wiping. heating the vehicle de icing clean ensure that no objects are ob ing etc. return stalk to structing the travel of the blade. the stop position. Risk of injury and or damage ENG UD Essuie vitre Lave vitre arri re BFB KFB Renault wipers up to the end of the DU screen wash wipe up to the end of the DU wipers blades up to the end of the DU windscreen washer up to the end of the DU REAR SCREEN WASH WIPE Activation deactivation of the rear In the event of obstacles present on the screen wiper rear window dirt snow etc. the wiper will try to sweep away all the obstacles. Engaging reverse gear triggers inter mittent wiping if the front wipers are in If an obstacle prevents the blade from moving it can be stopped. Remove the operation. If your vehicle is equipped obstacle wait for around seconds with a vehicle settings customisation and reactivate the wiper using the wiper menu you can opt to activate or deacti vate this function stalk. For vehicles not fitted with a settings Precautions customisation menu you can have this In the event of ice check that the function deactivated by an authorised blades are not stuck to the wind dealer. screen before operating the wipers. If you activate the wiper while the blade is blocked by ice you risk damaging both the blade and the p wiping motor. Rear screen wash wipe Do not operate the wipers on a dry With the ignition on push and screen. This will lead to the prema hold stalk then release. ture wear or damage to the blades. A longer action will trigger three sweeps of the wipers followed a few seconds later by a fourth in addition to the wind screen washer ENG UD Essuie vitre Lave vitre arri re BFB KFB Renault FUEL TANK A Useable tank capacity For details on filling the fuel tank refer Fuel grade to the information on Filling with fuel About gallons litres for Use a high grade fuel that complies on the next page. petrol versions with the legislation in force in each about. gallons litres for To close it press on the fuel filler flap by country and which must comply with four door diesel versions hand as far as it will go. the specifications given on the label on the cover about. gallons litres for five door and estate diesel versions. With the vehicle unlocked to open cover press area A then release or depending on the vehicle press the control on the dashboard. The cover Never press valve with opens. your fingers. Valve is integrated into the filler pipe. Do not wash the filler area with a high pressure washer ENG UD R servoir carburant BFB KFB Renault Fuel tank filling with fuel fuel filler cap current page fuel tank capacity up to the end of the DU fuel capacity current page fuel quality up to the end of the DU fuel filling up to the end of the DU fuel level up to the end of the DU fuel tank capacity up to the end of the DU FUEL TANK Filling with fuel With the ignition off insert the nozzle to Vehicle fitted with the Stop and open valve and insert it fully before Start function turning it on to fill the fuel tank risk of splashing. To fill up with fuel the engine must Keep the nozzle in this position through be stopped and not put in standby out the entire filling operation. you MUST stop the engine. When the pump cuts out automatically at the end of the filling procedure a maximum of two further filling attempts may be made as there must be suffi cient space in the fuel tank to allow for Fuel types that conform to European expansion. standards with which the engines of Make sure that no water enters the fuel vehicles sold in Europe are compat tank during filling. The valve and its ible refer to the table surround must remain clean. Diesel versions It is essential to use diesel fuel that Petrol versions Do not mix even small conforms with the information given on Using leaded petrol will damage the amounts of petrol un the label inside cover. antipollution system and may lead to leaded or E with diesel. a loss of warranty. To ensure that the Do not use ethanol based Petrol versions fuel tank is not filled with leaded petrol fuel if your vehicle is not compatible the fuel tank filler neck consists of a re with this fuel. It is essential to use unleaded petrol. strictor fitted with a safety system which Do not add reagent to the fuel The octane rating RON must comply only allows a nozzle for unleaded otherwise you risk damaging the with the information given on the label petrol to be used at the pump. engine on the cover If you wish to add an additive to the fuel use a product approved by our Technical Department. Consult an approved dealer ENG UD R servoir carburant BFB KFB Renault Stop Start current page FUEL TANK Running out of fuel on diesel versions Vehicles with key remote control No modifications what Set the ignition key to the ON posi soever are permitted on tion. and wait a few minutes any part of the fuel supply before starting to enable the fuel cir system electronic units cuit to be primed wiring fuel circuit injectors pro turn the key to position START. If tective covers etc. as this may be the engine does not start repeat the dangerous unless undertaken by procedure. qualified Network personnel. If the engine does not start after sev eral attempts please contact an au thorised dealer. Vehicles with card With the card in the passenger com Persistent smell of partment press the start button with out pressing any of the pedals. Wait a fuel few minutes before starting. This will If you notice a persistent enable the fuel circuit to be primed. If smell of fuel you should the engine does not start repeat the stop the vehicle as soon as traf procedure. fic conditions allow and switch off If the engine does not start after several the ignition attempts please contact an authorised switch on the hazard warning dealer. lights and ask your passengers to leave the vehicle and to keep away from traffic contact an approved Dealer ENG UD R servoir carburant BFB KFB Renault fuel repriming current page REAGENT TANK Please ensure that you comply with the legislation of your country. It is impor tant to remember that failure to respect regulations in force could lead to legal action being taken against the vehicle A Vehicle fitted with the Stop and Start function owner. To fill up with reagent the engine must be stopped and not put Operating principle on standby you MUST stop the The reagent is intended for diesel en engine gines fitted with the SCR selective cat alytic reduction system. Using a reagent reduces the quantity of nitrogen oxides in exhaust gases. If the XXX MILES XXX Reagent consumption in real time de KM Failure Top up AdBlue pends on vehicle usage conditions the warning message appears equipment fitted and driving style. Filling fill the reagent tank and refer to the filling instructions. Capacity of the tank. gal Reagent quality litres approximately. Risk of immobilisation of the ve Use only reagents which conform hicle. to standard ISO and in accor With the ignition switched off open the dance with the mark on the tank filler cover A then unscrew the cap. cap. Note Ammonium hydroxide vapour may escape from the cap opening Filler cap this is specific. when the tank temperature is high. If you have to replace it make sure it is identical to the original cap. Contact an approved Dealer. Do not wash the filler area with a high pressure washer. The reagent must not come into contact with eyes or skin. If it does wash the affected area with plenty of cold water. If necessary consult a doctor ENG UD R servoir r actif BFB KFB Renault Reagent tank AdBlue up to the end of the DU additive reagent up to the end of the DU reagent tank cap up to the end of the DU reagent tank capacity up to the end of the DU reagent quality up to the end of the DU filling with reagent up to the end of the DU reagent tank up to the end of the DU reagent tank up to the end of the DU reagent tank capacity up to the end of the DU SCR selective catalytic reduction up to the end of the DU REAGENT TANK Filling continued If the reagent overflows or contami nates any paintwork clean the affected The tank can be filled at the pump. With area quickly with plenty of cold water the ignition off insert the nozzle and and a soft cloth. insert it fully before turning it on to fill the fuel tank risk of splashing. Keep Note If the reagent crystallises use a the nozzle in this position throughout soft sponge. After filling the reagent tank check the entire filling operation. that the cap and cover are closed In extreme cold weather conditions start the engine and WAIT sec When the pump cuts out automatically In frosty weather conditions the rea onds with the vehicle stationary at the end of the filling procedure a gent tank should be refilled when the engine running before setting off maximum of two further filling attempts again. may be made as there must be suffi indicator and the message Top If this operation is not carried out cient space in the fuel tank to allow for up AdBlue before km appear on the filling of the tank will not be expansion. the instrument panel. taken into account automatically In other filling cases it is essential to Special cases until after several dozens of minutes read the information shown on the rea The reagent fluid freezes below about of driving. gent container e.g. the can or bottle. C. The message Top up AdBlue and or the warning lights will con In these conditions do not attempt fill tinue to appear until the filling has Precautions for use ing when the fluid is frozen. In the event been taken into account by the When filling of needing to top up or fill the tank system. handle the reagent with care. They with reagent on park the ve can damage clothes shoes body hicle in a hotter location if possible so work components etc. that the reagent becomes liquid again. Otherwise have a qualified profes make sure that no water enters the sional top up or fill up with reagent fluid. fuel tank. No work whatsoever is permitted on any part of the system. To prevent damage only qualified per sonnel from our network may work on the system ENG UD R servoir r actif BFB KFB Renault REAGENT TANK Maintenance Range The information displayed on the instrument panel may be accompanied by a beep. Indicator Message What to do? lights When the message is displayed when the ignition is switched on you have less than miles km range. Top Up AdBlue before km Refill or have an Approved Dealer refill the reagent in the tank. When the message is displayed when the ignition is switched on you have between miles km and miles Top up AdBlue before km km range. appears. Refill or have an Approved Dealer refill the reagent in the tank. The message is displayed when the ignition is switched on and is repeated Approximately every miles km you have between XXX MILES XXX KM Failure Top up about miles km and miles km range appears. AdBlue Approximately every miles km you have less than miles km range. In any event fill or have an Approved Dealer fill the reagent tank as soon as possible. The engine will not start. MILES KM Failure Top up AdBlue flashes To restart you must fill the reagent tank yourself ENG UD R servoir r actif BFB KFB Renault indicators instrument panel up to the end of the DU REAGENT TANK System fault When the indicator lights light up this may be accompanied by a beep. Indicator lights Message Readings Check anti pollution system Indicates a fault in the system. Contact your approved AdBlue quality to check and come on. dealer as soon as possible. AdBlue injection to check Indicates a system fault and that in less than miles km it will become impossible to restart the vehicle. These warnings are repeated every miles km until there are between XXX MILES XXX KM Failure antipollu miles km and miles km re and come on. tion maining until the vehicle cannot be restarted Every miles km when there is less than miles km left before the vehicle cannot be restarted. Contact your approved dealer as soon as possible. Indicates that after the ignition is switched off the ve KM Failure antipollution and come on. hicle will not restart. Call an approved Dealer ENG UD R servoir r actif BFB KFB Renault. ENG UD Filler NU BFB Renault Section Driving Running in Ignition switch Starting stopping the engine Stop and Start function Special features of petrol versions Special features of diesel versions Gear lever Handbrake Electronic parking brake AUTOHOLD function Driving advice Eco driving Maintenance and antipollution advice Environment Tyre pressure warning and monitoring system Driver correction devices and aids Lane departure warning Lane Keeping Assist Blind spot warning Safe distance alert Active emergency braking Fatigue detection warning Detection of road signs Speed limiter Cruise control Adaptive cruise control Parking distance control Reversing camera Parking exit warning Assisted parking Automatic gearbox Emergency call ENG UD Sommaire BFB KFB Renault RUNNING IN Petrol version Diesel version For the first miles km do For the first miles km not exceed mph km h in the do not exceed mph km h in highest gear or to rpm. the highest gear or rpm. After completing this mileage you may drive You may only expect top performance faster although you may only expect from your vehicle after approximately top performance after approximately miles km. miles km. Service intervals refer to the During the running in period do not ac Maintenance Document for your vehi celerate hard while the engine is still cle. cold and do not let the engine over rev. Service intervals refer to the Maintenance Document for your vehi cle ENG UD Rodage BFB KFB Renault Running in running in current page driving up to the end of the DU IGNITION SWITCH vehicle with key ON position The ignition is switched on Accessories radio etc. can be used. START position If the engine fails to start at the first attempt the key must be turned back before the starter can be activated again. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Note on diesel versions several sec onds may pass between turning the key and the engine starting to allow for engine preheating. Ignition switch LOCK position To lock remove the key and turn the steering wheel until the steering column locks. To unlock turn the key and the steering wheel slightly ENG UD Contacteur de d marrage v hicule avec cl BFB KFB Renault Ignition switch ignition switch up to the end of the DU starting the engine up to the end of the DU starting the engine up to the end of the DU switching on the vehicle ignition up to the end of the DU driving current page running in current page STARTING STOPPING THE ENGINE vehicle with key Diesel versions Stopping the engine With the engine idling turn the key Turn the ignition key to the ON po back to the LOCK position. sition and hold this position until the engine preheating light goes off turn the key to the START position without depressing the acceler ator pedal Driver s responsibility release the key as soon as the when parking or stopping engine starts. the vehicle Special note if starting the engine Never leave an animal when the outdoor temperature is very child or adult who is not self suffi low below C hold down the cient alone in your vehicle even for clutch pedal until the engine starts. a short time. Starting the engine They may pose a risk to themselves or to others by starting the engine Petrol versions activating equipment such as the electric windows or locking the Activate the starter without acceler doors for example. ating Also in hot and or sunny weather release the key as soon as the please remember that the tempera engine starts. ture inside the passenger compart ment increases very quickly. Never switch off the igni tion before the vehicle has RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS stopped completely. Once INJURY. Never start your vehicle the engine has stopped the while freewheeling on a brake servo power assisted steer gradient. Risk of non ac ing etc. and the passive safety de tivation of power assisted vices such as air bags and preten steering. sioners will no longer operate. There is a risk of accidents ENG UD Demarrage arr t du moteur v hicule avec cl BFB KFB Renault Starting stopping the engine stopping the engine up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU starting the engine up to the end of the DU starting the engine current page switching on the vehicle ignition current page STARTING STOPPING THE ENGINE vehicle with card Hands free starting with the tailgate open In this case the card should not be lo cated in the luggage compartment to prevent the risk of loss. Driver s responsibility when parking or stopping the vehicle Never leave an animal child or adult who is not self suffi cient alone in your vehicle even for a short time. Conditions for starting the Special features They may pose a risk to themselves or to others by starting the engine engine If one of starting conditions is not ap activating equipment such as the plied the message Press Brake The card must be inserted in detection electric windows or locking the START or Press clutch START zone. doors for example. or Select Gearbox Position P is To start displayed on the instrument panel Also in hot and or sunny weather please remember that the tempera vehicles with an automatic gearbox in some cases it will be necessary ture inside the passenger compart place the lever in position P depress to move the steering wheel whilst ment increases very quickly. the brake pedal and press button pressing the start button to help vehicles with a manual gearbox unlock the steering column the RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS depress the brake or clutch pedal message Turn Steering Wheel INJURY. and press the button. If a gear is START will warn you of this engaged the vehicle may only be started by depressing the clutch pedal ENG UD D marrage arr t moteur v hicule avec carte BFB KFB Renault starting the engine up to the end of the DU engine start stop button up to the end of the DU starting the engine up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU accessories up to the end of the DU operating faults up to the end of the DU stopping the engine up to the end of the DU STARTING STOPPING THE ENGINE vehicle with card Press the brake or clutch pedal then place the card button side during approximately two seconds on the placement area. Press the button to start the vehicle. The message goes out. Accessories function Operating faults switching on the ignition In certain cases the hands free card Once you have gained access to your may not work vehicle you may use some of its func when the card battery is drained etc. tions radio navigation wipers etc near to appliances operating on the same frequency as the card moni To use the other functions with the tor mobile phone video game card in the passenger compartment etc. press the button without pressing the vehicle located in a high electro pedals. magnetic radiation zone. The message Place card on zone START appears on the instrument panel ENG UD D marrage arr t moteur v hicule avec carte BFB KFB Renault switching on the vehicle ignition current page STARTING STOPPING THE ENGINE vehicle with card If the card is no longer in the passenger When you leave your vehi compartment when you try to switch cle especially if you have the engine off the message Keycard your card with you check absent press hold START appears that the engine is com on the instrument panel press button pletely switched off. for longer than two seconds. If the card is no longer in the passenger compart ment make sure you can retrieve it before pressing and holding the button. Driver s responsibility Without the card you will not be able when parking or stopping to start. the vehicle With the engine switched off any ac Never leave an animal cessories being used radio etc. will child or adult who is not self suffi continue to function for approximately cient alone in your vehicle even for minutes. a short time. Conditions for stopping the When the driver s door is opened the They may pose a risk to themselves accessories stop working. or to others by starting the engine engine activating equipment such as the The vehicle must stationary with the electric windows or locking the lever positioned in N or P for vehicles doors for example. with an automatic transmission. Also in hot and or sunny weather With the card in the vehicle press please remember that the tempera button the engine stops. The steer ture inside the passenger compart ing column is locked when the driver s ment increases very quickly. door is opened or the vehicle is locked. Never switch off the igni tion before the vehicle has RISK OF DEATH OR SERIOUS stopped completely. Once INJURY. the engine has stopped the brake servo power assisted steer ing etc. and the passive safety de vices such as the airbags and pre tensioners will no longer operate ENG UD D marrage arr t moteur v hicule avec carte BFB KFB Renault FUNCTION STOP AND START This system enables a reduced fuel and The vehicle equipment remain opera consumption and lower greenhouse when the vehicle speed is zero tional while the engine is stopped. gas emissions. The system is acti during approximately one second or When the engine switches to standby vated automatically when the vehicle depending on the vehicle as soon the steering assistance may no longer is started. During driving the system as the vehicle speed is below ap be operational. stops the engine standby when the proximately mph km h. vehicle comes to a stop or is moving at In this case it becomes operational The engine remains on standby if posi a slow speed traffic jam traffic lights again when the engine is no longer on tion P is selected or if position N is se etc. depending on the vehicle. standby or the speed exceeds approxi lected with the handbrake engaged and mately mph km h downhill slope the brake pedal released. etc Conditions for engine For vehicles equipped with manual standby gearboxes If the engine is put in The vehicle has set off from where it the gea rbox is in neutral standby the electronic was parked parking brake depending If the warning light flashes For vehicles equipped with auto while the vehicle is stopped and the on the vehicle is not ap matic gearboxes message Shift to neutral appears plied automatically. the gearbox is in position D Mor N on the instrument panel this indi and cates that you need to shift the gear the brake pedal is depressed suffi lever to neutral ciently hard and Keep your vehicle station ary when the engine is the clutch pedal is released If the warning light flashes on standby s hown by the and while the vehicle is stopped and the message Press brake pedal ap the vehicle speed is less than ap warning light on the pears on the instrument panel this proximately mph km h. instrument panel. indicates that the brake pedal is not For all vehicles sufficiently pressed and Warning light on the instru the accelerator pedal is not de ment panel is lit when the engine is on The engine MUST be pressed standby. stopped not put in standby before leaving the vehicle ENG UD Fonction Stop and Start BFB KFB Renault Stop and start function starting the engine up to the end of the DU engine standby up to the end of the DU Stop Start function up to the end of the DU Stop Start up to the end of the DU instrument panel up to the end of the DU indicators instrument panel up to the end of the DU instrument panel messages up to the end of the DU FUNCTION STOP AND START Preventing the engine from Conditions for coming out of standing by engine standby In certain situations such as negotiat For vehicles equipped with auto ing a crossroads for instance it is pos matic gearboxes sible with the system activated to keep when the driver s door is opened the engine running so as to be ready to or move off quickly. when the driver s seat belt is unfas For vehicles equipped with au tened tomatic gearboxes and when the or engine standby is performed only the brake pedal is released and posi when the vehicle stopped tion D or M engaged depending on the vehicle Keep the vehicle stationary without or pressing too hard on the brake pedal. the brake pedal is released in gear For vehicles equipped with manual position N with the handbrake off gearboxes or Keep the clutch pedal pressed right the brake pedal is pressed again in down. gear position P or N engaged with the handbrake applied or the vehicle is in gear position R or the accelerator pedal is depressed or depending on the vehicle in manual mode M the gear change paddles are activated AUTOHOLD function activated. the brake pedal may be To fill up with fuel the engine must released and the engine standby be stopped and not put in standby maintained. you MUST stop the engine. Press the accelerator pedal to exit vehicle standby ENG UD Fonction Stop and Start BFB KFB Renault FUNCTION STOP AND START For vehicles equipped with manual Conditions preventing the the gradient is too steep for vehicles gearboxes standby of the engine fitted with an automatic gearbox when opening the driver s door with the Clear view function is activated Certain conditions prevent the system out any gear engaged and the clutch. from using the engine standby function pedal released including when the engine temperature is too low or the driver s door is not closed the emission control system is being when unfastening the driver s seat regenerated belt without any gear engaged and the driver s seatbelt is not fastened the clutch pedal released reverse gear is engaged or the bonnet is not locked Warning light is displayed on the the gearbox is in neutral and the instrument panel. This notifies you that the outdoor temperature is too low or clutch pedal is slightly depressed engin e standby is not available. too high or the battery is not sufficiently charged The warning light may appear the engine is in gear and the clutch along with a message on the instru pedal is pressed right down. the difference between the vehicle ment panel interior temperature and the auto Special note depending on the vehi Optimising Battery Recharge to pri matic climate control instruction is cle if you switch off the ignition when oritise battery charging too high the e ngine is on standby the warning Prioritising Thermal Comfort to pri parking distance control is in opera oritise air conditioning light is displayed for a few sec tion Prioritising running engine to priori onds on the instrument panel. tise engine operations. the altitude is too high For vehicles equipped with a manual gearbox the restart may be interrupted if the Deactivate the Stop and clutch pedal is released too quickly Start function for any opera while a gear is engaged. tion performed in the engine compartment ENG UD Fonction Stop and Start BFB KFB Renault FUNCTION STOP AND START Special feature of the automatic Deactivating activating the engine re start function Under certain conditions the engine Press to deactivate the function. The can restart on its own in order to guar message Stop Start deactivated antee your safety and comfort. appears on the instrument panel and This can occur especially when the switch warning light illuminates. the outdoor temperature is too low or Pressing again will reactivate the too high system. The message Stop Start Activated appears on the instrument the Clear view function is activated. panel and the switch warning light goes out. the battery is not sufficiently charged The system is automatically reactivated the vehicle speed is above mph each time the vehicle is started using km h downhill slope etc. the start button repeated pressing on the brake pedal or braking system require Operating faults ment The warning light may appear along with a message on the instru If the message Check Stop Start ment panel appears on the instrument panel and The warning light is displayed on Optimising Battery Recharge to pri the switch warning light illuminates the instrument panel to notify you of au oritise battery charging this indicates that the system is deac tomatic engine restarting. Prioritising Thermal Comfort to pri tivated. oritise air conditioning Please consult an authorised dealer. Prioritising running engine to priori tise engine operations. The engine MUST be stopped not put in standby before leaving the vehicle. Note With the engine on standby press switch to automatically re start the engine ENG UD Fonction Stop and Start BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page SPECIAL FEATURES OF PETROL VERSIONS The following operating conditions If you notice any of the above operating faults have the necessary repairs car driving for long periods when the low ried out as soon as possible by an ap fuel level warning light is lit proved Dealer. using leaded petrol These faults may be avoided by regu using lubricant or fuel additives larly taking your vehicle to an approved which are not approved Dealer at the intervals specified in the or operating faults such as Maintenance document. faulty ignition system running out of fuel or disconnected spark plugs re Starting problems sulting in the engine misfiring or cut To avoid damaging the catalytic con ting out when driving verter do not keep trying to start the loss of power engine using the start button or by pushing or towing the vehicle without as they may cause the catalytic con having identified and corrected the verter to overheat and thus reduce its starting fault. efficiency or damage it irreparably and cause heat damage to the vehi If the fault cannot be identified do not cle. keep trying to start the engine but con tact an approved Dealer. Do not park the vehicle or run the engine in locations where combustible sub stances or materials such as grass or leaves can come into contact with the hot exhaust system ENG UD Particularit s des versions essence avec FAP BFB KFB Renault Special features of petrol versions special features of petrol vehicles up to the end of the DU catalytic converter up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU operating faults up to the end of the DU faults operating faults up to the end of the DU SPECIAL FEATURES OF PETROL VERSIONS Particle filter Note The indicator light may go out If the filter becomes saturated the after minutes when the driving con warning lig ht and depending The particle filter is used in the treat ditions needed to clean the filter are not ment of exhaust gases from petrol en completely met. on the vehicle the warning light gines. will appear on the instrument panel ac Depe nding on the vehicle the warning If the vehicle is stopped before the companied by the message Check in warning light disappears you will have jection. In this case please consult an light displayed on the instrument to restart the process from the begin Authorised Dealer. panel indicates that the filter is becom ning. ing clogged and re quires cleaning. To If the warning light and de clean it when the warning light pending on the vehicle the appears and as traffic conditions and warning light appears accompanied by speed limits allow drive at between the WARNING Engine Failure Risk about mph km h and mph message stop the vehicle switch off km h until the light goes out. the engine and contact an Approved Dealer. After between approximately and minutes the warning light should go out. Warning light re quires you to stop immedi ately for your own safety as soon as traffic conditions allow. Switch off the engine and do not restart it. Contact an approved Dealer ENG UD Particularit s des versions essence avec FAP BFB KFB Renault filter particle filter current page indicators instrument panel current page instrument panel messages current page SPECIAL FEATURES OF DIESEL VERSIONS Diesel engine speed Precautions to be taken in winter Diesel engines are fitted with an injec A tion pump which prevents the engine To avoid any faults in icy weather speed being exceeded irrespective of ensure that the battery is always fully the gear selected. charged If the message Check Anti Pollution always keep the diesel tank rela System i s displayed along with warn tively full to avoid water vapour con ing lights and consult an densing in it and accumulating at the authorised dealer immediately. bottom of the tank. When driving depending on the fuel grade used it is possible that white smoke may be emitted. This is due to the exhaust particle filter being cleaned automatically and does Engine smoke opacity label not affect the way the vehicle runs. You will find information on the A label stuck inside the engine compartment. Running out of fuel Diesel exhaust emissions. After the tank has been filled follow ing a complete draining of fuel the fuel system must be reprimed. before restarting the engine. Do not park the vehicle or run the engine in locations where combustible sub stances or materials such as grass or leaves can come into contact with the hot exhaust system ENG UD Particularit s des versions diesel BFB KFB Renault Special features of diesel versions catalytic converter up to the end of the DU special features of diesel versions up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU operating faults up to the end of the DU faults operating faults up to the end of the DU indicators instrument panel up to the end of the DU instrument panel messages up to the end of the DU fuel repriming up to the end of the DU filter particle filter up to the end of the DU SPECIAL FEATURES OF DIESEL VERSIONS Particle filter Note the warning light may re appear If the filter becomes saturated the if the driving conditions are not suitable warning lig ht and depending The particle filter is used in the treat for particle filter cleaning. If the vehicle ment of exhaust gases from diesel en is stopped or if the engine speed drops on the vehicle the warning light gines. below rpm before the warning will appear on the instrument panel ac Depe nding on the vehicle the warning light goes out the operation may need companied by the message Check in light displayed on the instrument to be repeated. jection. In this case please consult an Authorised Dealer. panel indicates that the filter is becom ing clogged and require s cleaning. If the warning light and de To do this when the warning pending on the vehicle the light is displayed continue driving ac warning light appears accompanied by cording to traffic conditions and ob the WARNING Engine Failure Risk serve the speed limit until the warning message stop the vehicle switch off lights disappears. If possible do not let the engine and contact an Approved the engine speed drop below rpm. Dealer. The warning light should go out after to minutes The display of the on the instru ment panel may be accompanied by an increase in engine speed and operation of the cooling system in order to clean the particle filter. Warning light re quires you to stop immedi ately for your own safety as soon as traffic conditions allow. Switch off the engine and do To facilitate the particle filter re not restart it. Contact an approved generation carry out a long driving Dealer. phase at least minutes on main roads every miles km ENG UD Particularit s des versions diesel BFB KFB Renault GEAR LEVER HANDBRAKE Handbrake To apply Pull lever upwards. Check that the To release vehic le is immobilised. The warning Pull the lever up slightly press button and then lower the lever to the light on the instrument panel will floor. come on. The red warning light on the in strument panel will remain on accom panied by the message Parking Brake ON and a beep if you are driving with an incorrectly released handbrake. Make sure that the hand brake is properly released when driving red indicator Gear lever light off otherwise over heating or even damage may Vehicles with manual gearbox refer occur. to the grid on the gear lever knob. Vehicles with an automatic gearbox An impact to the under side of the vehicle while When stationary and de Selecting reverse gear manoeuvring e.g. strik pending on the slope and or ing a post raised kerb or The reversing lights will come on as vehicle load it may be nec other street furniture may result in soon as reverse gear is selected with essary to pull up the hand damage to the vehicle e.g. defor the ignition on. brake at least two extra notches and mation of an axle. engage a gear st or reverse gear To avoid any risk of accident have for vehicles with a manual gearbox your vehicle checked by an ap or position P for vehicles with an au proved Dealer. tomatic gearbox ENG UD Levier de vitesse frein main BFB KFB Renault Gear lever Handbrake gear lever current page reverse gear selecting up to the end of the DU handbrake current page changing gear up to the end of the DU automatic gearbox use current page instrument panel current page indicators instrument panel current page reverse gear selecting current page ELECTRONIC PARKING BRAKE In all other instances for example the engine has stalled or is in standby due to the Stop and Start function. the assisted parking brake is not applied automatically. Manual mode must be used. For certain country specific model ver sions the assisted brake application function is not activated. Refer to the information on Manual operation. To confirm that the electronic parking brake is applied the message P arking brake on and warning light on the instrument panel and warning light on the switch light up. Assisted operation or for vehicles fitted with an automatic After the engine is switched off indi Applying the electronic parking gearbox when position P is en cator light goes out several minutes brake gaged. after the assisted parking brak e has With the vehicle stationary the elec been applied and indicator light tronic parking brake can be used to im goes out when the vehicle is locked. mobilise the vehicle by pressing the engine start stop button or by turning the ignition key to the ON position or The electronic parking brake can be used to immobilise the vehicle. when the driver s seat belt is un Before leaving the vehicle check that the electronic park ing brake is fully fastened or applied. Warning light on switch and warning light on the in when the driver s door is opened strument panel illuminate to show that the parking brake is applied but switch off when the doors are locked. Depending on the vehicle a sticker is located on the upper section of the windscreen to remind you of this ENG UD Frein de parking assist BFB KFB Renault Electronic parking brake stopping the engine up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU ignition switch up to the end of the DU Stop Start function up to the end of the DU handbrake up to the end of the DU parking brake up to the end of the DU electronic parking brake up to the end of the DU indicators instrument panel up to the end of the DU instrument panel messages up to the end of the DU instrument panel up to the end of the DU ELECTRONIC PARKING BRAKE Assisted release of the parking brake The parking brake is released once the vehicle starts to accelerate or if the vehicle is equipped with an au tomatic gearbox the parking brake is released when the gearbox exits the Park position. Manual operation You can apply the electronic parking brake manually. Assisted operation In this case pull and release switch to Manually applying the electronic continued apply the assisted parking brake. parking brake Note in some situations electronic Pull switch w arning light on the parking brake failure manual release of the parking brake etc. a beep sounds switch and the warning light on and the message Apply parking brake the instrument panel light up. appears on the instrument panel to warn you that the electronic parking brake has been released. with the engine running when the The electronic parking brake can be used to immobilise the vehicle. driver s door is opened with the engine switched off eg. Before leaving the vehicle check that the electronic park ing brake is fully when the engine stalls when a front applied. Warning light on switch and warning light on the in door is opened. strument panel illuminate to show that the parking brake is applied but switch off when the doors are locked. Depending on the vehicle a sticker is located on the upper section of the windscreen to remind you of this ENG UD Frein de parking assist BFB KFB Renault ELECTRONIC PARKING BRAKE To park the vehicle without applying the electronic parking brake if there is a risk of freezing for example switch off the engine by pressing the engine start stop button or by turn ing the ignition key engage any gear or the P position the drive wheels will be mechanically locked by the driveshaft manually release the electronic park ing brake. Manually releasing the electronic Brief stop parking brake To apply the electronic parking brake Press switch without pressing the manually when stopping at a red light pedals or turning the key in position or stopping when the engine is running ON to switch on the ignition. Press etc. pull and release the switch. the brake pedal then press switch in dicator li ght on the switch and indica The brake is released as soon as the If the driver s seat belt is vehicle is started up again. unfastened before the ve tor light displayed on the instru hicle has come to a com ment panel go out. plete standstill ensure the Special cases parking brake has be en properly To park on a slope or while towing a trailer for example pull switch for applied warning light on the a few seconds to gain the maximum instrument panel light up to confirm braking. this. Risk of loss of immobilisation ENG UD Frein de parking assist BFB KFB Renault ELECTRONIC PARKING BRAKE Versions with an automatic Operating faults gearbox If there is a fault the warning For safety reasons automatic release light illuminates on the instrument is deactivated when the driver s door panel accompanied by the Check is open or not shut properly and the parking brake me ssage and in If the message Electric fail engine is running in order to prevent some cases the warning ure DANGER or Check the vehicle from moving without the light. battery appears manually driver. The Release parking brake Please contact an authorised dealer activate the electronic park manually message appears on the as soon as possible. ing brake by pulling switch or po instrument panel when the driver de sition the gear lever in P for auto presses the accelerator. If there is an assisted parking brake matic gearboxes before stopping fault the warning light comes the engine. on along with the message Braking system fault a beep an d in some Risk of loss of immobilisation of the vehicle. cases the warning light. Contact an authorised dealer. This means that you must stop as soon as traffic conditions allow. Never leave your vehicle If no lights or sounds are ap without moving the selec parent this indicates a fault tor lever to position P and in the instrument panel. This switching off the engine. indicates that it is essential It is therefore essential to This is because when the vehicle is to stop immediately as soon as traf immobilise the vehicle by stationary with the engine running fic conditions allow. Ensure that the engaging first gear manual and a gear engaged the vehicle vehicle is correctly immobilised and gearbox or position P au may begin to move. contact an approved Dealer. tomatic gearbox. If the slope re quires it chock the vehicle. There is a risk of accidents ENG UD Frein de parking assist BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page automatic gearbox use current page faults operating faults current page AUTOHOLD FUNCTION Vehicle stopped e.g. at a red light an Conditions for interrupting the intersection a traffic jam etc. the func braking force tion ensures braking force even when The following conditions must be met the driver releases the brake pedal. the driver accelerates sufficiently The braking force is released as soon with a gear engaged as the driver accelerates sufficiently or with a gear engaged. the driver disables the function. Activation Warning light goes out on the in Press the switch. strument panel. The switch warning light illuminates to confirm that the function is activated. Deactivation Upon each start up the function Press the brake pedal and switch si multaneously. Conditions for maintaining the continues the mode set at the time The switch warning light turns off braking force the engine was last switched off. confirming that the function is deacti The following conditions must be met vated. the seat belt for the driver is fas The electronic parking If the braking force is maintained the tened brake can be used to im parking brake is applied automatically and mobilise the vehicle. Before when the electronic parking brake is re leaving the vehicle check the driver exits the vehicle leased that the electronic parking brake or and is fully applied. Warning l ight on the vehicle is immobilised for more the vehicle is not stationary on a very than approximately three minutes. steep slope. switch and warning light on the instrument panel illuminate to The maintaine d braking force is con show that the parking brake is ap plied but switch off when the doors firmed by the warning light on are locked. Depending on the vehi the instrument panel. cle a sticker is located on the upper section of the windscreen to remind you of this ENG UD Autohold BFB KFB Renault AUTOHOLD function Autohold up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU brake up to the end of the DU parking brake current page electronic parking brake up to the end of the DU indicators instrument panel current page instrument panel current page DRIVING ADVICE ECO DRIVING Fuel consumption is accredited in ac Depending on the vehicle you will have Free wheel function cordance with a standard regulatory various functions which enable you to On vehicles fitted with an automatic method. Identical for all manufactur lower your fuel consumption gearbox depending on the vehicle ers this enables vehicles to be com the rev counter during deceleration phases driver s pared with one another. Consumption foot fully off the accelerator pedal in real time depends on vehicle usage gear change indicator switching to freewheeling automatic conditions the equipment fitted and the the free wheel function neutral decreases engine braking and user s driving style. To optimise fuel the driving style indicator allows you to move farther without ac consumption please refer to the follow celerating in order to save fuel. ing advice. Eco acceleration indicator the journey record and eco driving Warning light appears on the in advice via the multimedia screen strument panel ECO mode in grey when the vehicle is not in the Stop and Start function free wheel mode in green or white depending on the vehicle when the vehicle is in free wheel mode automatic neutral ENG UD Conseils de conduite ECO conduite BFB KFB Renault Driving advice Eco driving driving instrument panel up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU fuel indicators advice on fuel economy instrument panel up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU fuel economy ECO mode up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU ECO driving up to the end of the DU driving recommendations up to the end of the DU fuel consumption up to the end of the DU fuel consumption up to the end of the DU changing gear up to the end of the DU Stop Start function up to the end of the DU Stop Start up to the end of the DU DRIVING ADVICE ECO DRIVING A B C On the instrument panel A B Gear change indicator or C Depending on the vehicle to obtain op timum consumption levels a warning Depending on the vehicle the informa light on the instrument panel lets you tion display can be organised and cus know the best time to move up or down tomised based on the instrument panel customisation style selected from the a gear multimedia screen. shift up a gear downshift a gear. If you regularly follow this indicator you will reduce your vehicle s fuel consump tion ENG UD Conseils de conduite ECO conduite BFB KFB Renault DRIVING ADVICE ECO DRIVING A B C Driving style indicator Informs you about the driving style adopted in real time. This is shown by indicator light. The more petals displayed on the more your driving is flexible and eco nomical. If you regularly monitor this indicator you will reduce your vehicle s fuel con sumption. Please refer to the multimedia instruc tions for further information ENG UD Conseils de conduite ECO conduite BFB KFB Renault freewheel current page DRIVING ADVICE ECO DRIVING Acceleration indicator Eco This informs you in real time whether you are accelerating moderately or strongly. This is shown by the warning light green acceleration is moderate and correct white acceleration is too high grey acceleration is high. Note it is not possible to simulta neously display the driving style indica tor and the Eco acceleration indica tor ENG UD Conseils de conduite ECO conduite BFB KFB Renault DRIVING ADVICE ECO DRIVING An overall rating from to is dis played to let you assess your eco driv ing performance. The higher the rating the lower the fuel consumption. Eco advice is given to help improve your performance. With your favourite journeys saved you can compare your performance between trips and the performance of other vehicle users. Please refer to the multimedia instruc tions for further information. On the multimedia screen Journey record Once the engine is switched off you will see Journey record displayed on the multimedia screen enabling you to view information on your last journey. This indicates the general score score evolution distance without fuel consumption ENG UD Conseils de conduite ECO conduite BFB KFB Renault DRIVING ADVICE ECO DRIVING ECO mode While driving it is possible to exit the ECO mode temporarily in order to im ECO mode is a function which opti prove engine performance. To do this mises fuel consumption. It affects cer press the accelerator pedal firmly and tain driving operations acceleration fully. shifting gears cruise control decelera tion etc ECO mode is reactivated when you take pressure off the accelerator pedal. Limiting acceleration enables low fuel consumption in urban and surrounding Disabling the function areas. Depending on the vehicle the function can be deactivated either by pressing switch by the central control The warning light goes out on Activating the function the instrument panel to confirm deac The function can be activated tivation. by pressing switch by the central control. from the multimedia screen refer to the multimedia instructions. The warning light comes on on the instrument panel to confirm activa tion ENG UD Conseils de conduite ECO conduite BFB KFB Renault DRIVING ADVICE ECO DRIVING Do not overrev the engine in the in Bad weather flooded roads termediate gears. You should always use the highest gear possible. Do not drive through Avoid sudden acceleration. floods if the water is Brake as little as possible. If you an above the lower edge of ticipate an obstacle or bend in ad the wheel rims. vance you may then simply release the accelerator pedal. Do not try to maintain the same speed up a hill accelerate no more than you would on flat ground. Keep your foot in the same position on the accelerator pedal. Double declutching and accelerating before switching off are unnecessary Driving advice and ECO in modern vehicles. driving Behaviour Drive carefully for the first few miles until the engine reaches its normal operating temperature rather than let it warm up while the vehicle is sta Obstructions to the driver tionary. On the driver s side only Speed is expensive. use mats suitable for the Dynamic driving with a lot of frequent vehicle attached with the acceleration and braking is expen pre fitted components and check sive on fuel in comparison to the time the fitting regularly. Do not lay one saved. mat on top of another. There is a risk of wedging the pedals. ENG UD Conseils de conduite ECO conduite BFB KFB Renault DRIVING ADVICE ECO DRIVING In vehicles fitted with air condi tioning it is normal to observe an increase in fuel consumption espe cially in urban conditions when it is used. For vehicles fitted with manual air conditioning switch off the system when it is not required. Recommendations for reducing consumption and therefore help ing to preserve the environment If the vehicle has been parked in the sun open the doors for a few mo ments to let the hot air escape before starting the engine. Do not leave an empty roof rack Tyres Advice on use fitted to the vehicle. It is better to fit a trailer for bulky ob An underinflated tyre increases fuel Opt for ECO mode. jects. consumption. Electricity consumes fuel switch off When towing a caravan fit a wind To optimise fuel consumption set the all electrical components when they deflector and adjust it carefully. highest speed tyre pressure or the are not genuinely needed in order Avoid using the vehicle for door to recommended pressure indicated on to save fuel. However safety first door calls short journeys with long the edge of the driver s door keep your lights on when the visibility waits in between because in such The use of non recommended tyres is bad see and be seen. conditions the engine never reaches can increase fuel consumption. Use the air vents. Driving with the its optimal operating temperature. windows open at mph km h will increase fuel consumption by. Never fill the fuel tank right to the brim to avoid overflow ENG UD Conseils de conduite ECO conduite BFB KFB Renault tyres current page tyre pressure current page MAINTENANCE AND ANTIPOLLUTION ADVICE Your vehicle complies with criteria for In addition replacing engine fuel Air filter fuel filter a choked ele recycling and recovering vehicles at the supply system and exhaust compo ment will reduce efficiency. It must end of their service life which entered nents with parts other than those origi be replaced. into force in. nally recommended by the manufac turer may alter your vehicle so that it Some parts of your vehicle have there Exhaust gas monitoring no longer complies with anti pollution fore been designed to facilitate future regulations. system recycling. Have your vehicle adjusted and The exhaust gas monitoring system will These parts are easy to remove so checked by an authorised dealer in ac detect any operating faults in the vehi that they can be recovered and repro cordance with the instructions given in cle s antipollution system. cessed by recycling companies. your maintenance schedule they will If this system malfunctions toxic sub By virtue of its design moderate fuel have all the equipment necessary for stances may be released into the at consumption and initial settings your ensuring that your vehicle is maintained mosphere or damage may occur. vehicle also conforms to current an to its original standard. This warning light on the in tipollution regulations. The manufac strument panel will indicate if turer is actively striving to reduce pol there are any faults in the system lutant exhaust gas emissions and to Engine adjustments This lights up when the ignition is save energy. But the fuel consumption Spark plugs for optimum condi switched on and goes out when the of your vehicle and the level of pollutant tions of use output and performance engine is started. exhaust gas emissions are also your the specifications laid down by our If it lights up continuously consult an responsibility. Ensure that it is main Design Department must be strictly approved Dealer as soon as possi tained and used correctly. applied. ble If the spark plugs have to be changed if it flashes reduce the engine speed Maintenance use the make type and gap specified until the light stops flashing. Contact for your vehicle s engine. Contact an an authorised dealer as soon as pos It is important to remember that fail authorised dealer for this. sible. ure to respect antipollution regulations could lead to legal action being taken Ignition and idle speed no adjust. ment is needed. against the vehicle owner ENG UD Conseils entretien et antipollution BFB KFB Renault Maintenance and antipollution advice advice on antipollution up to the end of the DU antipollution advice up to the end of the DU maintenance up to the end of the DU instrument panel current page indicators instrument panel current page ENVIRONMENT Your vehicle has been designed with Emissions At the end of the vehicle s service respect for the environment in mind for life it should be sent to approved Your vehicle has been designed to its entire service life during production centres to ensure that it is recycled. emit fewer greenhouse gases CO use and at the end of its life. while in use and therefore to consume In all cases comply with local legis less fuel e.g. g km equivalent to lation. Manufacture. mpg. l km for a diesel vehicle. Your vehicle has been manufactured at Recycling a factory which complies with a policy Our vehicles are also equipped with a Your vehicle is recyclable and to reduce the environmental impact particle filter system including a cata recoverable. on the surrounding areas reduction of lytic converter an oxygen sensor and water and energy consumption visual an active carbon filter the latter pre To achieve these objectives many of and noise pollution atmospheric emis vents vapour from the fuel tank being the vehicle components have been de sions and waste water sorting and re released into the open air. signed to enable them to be recycled. using waste. The materials and structures have On certain diesel vehicles this system been carefully designed to allow these also includes a particle filter to reduce components to be easily removed and the volume of soot particles emitted. reprocessed by specialist companies. In order to preserve raw material re Please make your own sources this vehicle incorporates nu contribution towards merous parts made from recycled plas protecting the environment tics or renewable materials vegetable too or animal derived materials such as cotton or wool. Worn parts replaced in the course of routine vehicle maintenance vehi cle battery oil filter air filter batter ies etc. and oil containers empty or filled with used oil must be disposed of through specialist organisations ENG UD Environnement sans marque BFB XFD Renault Environment environment up to the end of the DU TYRE PRESSURE LOSS WARNING When fitted to the vehicle this system Operating principle notifies the driver if one or more tyres This system detects a loss of pressure lose pressure. in one of the tyres by measuring the The system can be identified by the wheel speed while driving. label in the vehicle. The warning light comes on on the dashboard to alert the driver in the event of insufficient pressure tyre de flated punctured etc ENG UD Avertisseur de perte de pression des pneumatiques KFB BFB Renault Tyre pressure warning and monitoring system tyres up to the end of the DU tyre pressure up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU tyre pressures up to the end of the DU instrument panel up to the end of the DU indicators instrument panel up to the end of the DU instrument panel messages up to the end of the DU tyre inflation kit up to the end of the DU tyre pressure loss warning up to the end of the DU TYRE PRESSURE LOSS WARNING Operating conditions significant change in load or distribu Resetting the standard level tion of load on one side of the vehi for the tyre pressures The system should be reset with a cle pressure equal to that stated on the tyre sporty driving with strong accelera This should be done pressure label refer to the information tion after each re inflation or resetting of on Tyre Pressures in section other driving on snowy or slippery surface tyre pressure wise it may not give a reliable warning driving with snow chains in the event of significant pressure loss. after changing a wheel fitting a single new tyre Resetting should always be carried use of tyres not approved by the net after changing wheels around. out after checking the tyre pressure work. Tyre pressures must correspond to the of all four tyres when cold. current usage of the vehicle empty In the following situations the system carrying a load motorway driving etc risk coming into action late or not func tioning correctly system not reset after reinflation or any operation on the wheels system badly reset different inflation pressures from the recommended pressures This function is an addi tional driving aid. The function does not take the place of the driver. It cannot therefore under any cir cumstances replace the vigilance or the responsibility of the driver. Check the tyre pressures including the emergency spare wheel once a The sudden loss of pressure in a month. tyre burst tyre etc. cannot be de tected by the system ENG UD Avertisseur de perte de pression des pneumatiques KFB BFB Renault TYRE PRESSURE LOSS WARNING Hold down the switch until the Operation completed message ap pears. You can now drive. Resetting procedure Ignition on vehicle stopped repeatedly tap the switch as many times as n ecessary to reach the ve hicle tab briefly press the or switch to reach the Tyre pressure init. long press page press and hold the OK switch to launch the reset. If the vehicle is equipped with a nav igation system the resetting proce dure may also be carried out using the multimedia screen please see the equipment instructions ENG UD Avertisseur de perte de pression des pneumatiques KFB BFB Renault TYRE PRESSURE LOSS WARNING The table below shows the possible messages related to the tyre resetting procedure. Steps Messages Readings Tyre pressure init. at stop The message is displayed during driving. If you want to reset the pressure of the four tyres stop the vehicle. Tyre pressure init. long press To reset the pressure of the four tyres with the vehicle stopped press and hold the OK switch to launch resetting until the If pressure OK hold on message is displayed. If pressure OK hold on The message flashes to indicate that the system has registered the resetting procedure. If all four tyres have been correctly adjusted to match the tyre pres sure values recommended on the tyre pressure label. press and hold switch OK until the message Operation completed appears. Operation completed The resetting procedure has been completed successfully. You can now drive ENG UD Avertisseur de perte de pression des pneumatiques KFB BFB Renault TYRE PRESSURE LOSS WARNING Readjustment of tyre After each change of wheel tyre read pressures just the tyre pressure and launch the reset of the tyre pressure reference The pressure of the four tyres must value. be set when cold refer to the label lo cated on the edge of the driver s door. Emergency spare wheel If tyre pressures cannot be checked when the tyres are cold the recom If fitted on the vehicle readjust the tyre mended pressures should be increased pressure and launch the reinitialisation by. to. bar PSI. of the tyre pressure reference value. Never deflate a hot tyre. After each reinflation or readjustment of Tyre repair product and the tyre pressure launch the reinitiali inflation kit sation of the tyre pressure reference value. Only use equipment approved by the brand network or the system risks being activated late or not operating Tyre pressure faults Replacing wheels tyres correctly After using the tyre The table on the following page lists Only use equipment approved by the inflation kit readjust the tyre pressure the warning messages which appear network otherwise the system risks and launch the resetting of the tyre on the instrument panel when the late activation or incorrect operation. pressure reference value. system detects a tyre pressure fault ENG UD Avertisseur de perte de pression des pneumatiques KFB BFB Renault TYRE PRESSURE LOSS WARNING The information on the instrument panel signals any potential tyre pressure faults e.g. deflated or punctured tyre. Indicator Messages Readings lights This indicates that tyre under inflation or puncture has been detected. Inflate tyres and init. Check and adjust the pressure of the four tyres when cold and reset the system. This indicates that the reset has been unsuccessful. Check and readjust Check tyre press and init. the tyre pressure before re launching the resetting procedure. This indicates that the last system reset was carried out over months Check tyre press and init. ago or over approximately miles km. Check and readjust the tyre pressure before re launching another resetting procedure. Check TPW This indicates a fault in the system. Consult an approved dealer. This indicates that an emergency spare wheel different in size to the other four wheels has been fitted to the vehicle. The system remains unavail TPW not available able until a wheel identical in size to the other wheels has been fitted and the resetting procedure has been carried out ENG UD Avertisseur de perte de pression des pneumatiques KFB BFB Renault TYRE PRESSURE MONITOR Resetting the standard level for the tyre pressures This should be done when the standard tyre pressure needs to be changed to adapt to usage conditions empty carrying a load motorway driving etc. after swapping a wheel however this practice is not recommended after changing a wheel. It should always be done after checking the tyre pressure of all four tyres when cold. Tyre pressures must correspond to the current usage of the vehicle empty If the vehicle is equipped with the func carrying a load motorway driving etc tion this system monitors the tyre pres sure. Operating principle Each wheel except for the emergency spare wheel has a sensor in the infla tion valve which periodically measures the tyre pressure. The system displays the current pres sures on the instrument panel and alerts the driver in the event of insuffi cient pressure. If the vehicle is equipped with a nav igation system the resetting proce dure may also be carried out using the multimedia screen please see the equipment instructions ENG UD Syst me de surveillance de pression pneumatiques BFB Renault tyre pressure monitor up to the end of the DU tyre pressure up to the end of the DU tyres tyre pressure monitoring system up to the end of the DU tyres up to the end of the DU tyre pressures up to the end of the DU tyre inflation kit up to the end of the DU TYRE PRESSURE MONITOR press and hold around seconds the button to launch the reset. The flashing tyres followed by the mes sages Learning Tyre Pressures and then Tyres location in progress indicates that the reset request for the tyre pressure reference value has been acknowledged. Reset can take several minutes of driv ing. If the resetting is followed by short trips the message Tyres location in progress can remain displayed after successive restarts. Note the standard tyre pressure Resetting procedure cannot be less than that recommended Ignition on vehicle stopped and indicated on the door frame. repeatedly tap the switch as many times as n ecessary to reach the ve hicle tab briefly press the or switch to reach the Tyre Pressure page For your safety the warning light requires you to stop immediately as soon as traffic conditions allow ENG UD Syst me de surveillance de pression pneumatiques BFB Renault TYRE PRESSURE MONITOR The table below shows the possible messages related to the tyre resetting procedure. Steps Displays Messages Readings Tyre pressure init. long press With the ignition on and the vehicle stationary start the resetting the pressure of all four tyres by pressing and holding the OK switch. Learning Tyre Pressures The quote marks in front of each wheel will flash to indicate that the system has registered the tyre pressure reset for all four wheels. Tyres location in progress The quote marks in front of each wheel will remain lit. This system resets the tyre pressure of all four tyres. You can now drive. The message may remain displayed during short journeys. Note during the reset tyre pressure monitoring remains in operation. The pressure value of the four tyres is displayed the re setting procedure is complete and successful ENG UD Syst me de surveillance de pression pneumatiques BFB Renault TYRE PRESSURE MONITOR Readjustment of tyre Replacing wheels tyres pressures This system requires specific equip The pressure of the four tyres must ment wheels tyres hubcaps etc be set when cold refer to the label lo cated on the edge of the driver s door. Contact an approved Dealer to fit new If the tyre pressures cannot be checked tyres and to find out about available ac when the tyres are cold the recom cessories compatible with the system mended pressures should be increased and available from your dealer net by. to. bar PSI. work the use of any other accessory Never deflate a hot tyre. could affect the correct operation of the system or damage a sensor. Emergency spare wheel If the vehicle is equipped with an emer gency spare wheel it will not have a sensor. Tyre repair product and inflation kit Because the valves are specially de signed only use equipment approved by the approved network. Please see the section on This function is an addi tional driving aid. The function does not take Tyre pressure faults the place of the driver. It Changing a wheel cannot therefore under any cir The system may take sev The table on the following page lists cumstances replace the vigilance eral minutes depending on the warning messages which appear or the responsibility of the driver. use for the new wheel po on the instrument panel when the Check the tyre pressures including sitions and pressures to be recog system detects a tyre pressure fault. the emergency spare wheel once a nised check the tyre pressures after month. all operations ENG UD Syst me de surveillance de pression pneumatiques BFB Renault TYRE PRESSURE MONITOR The information on the instrument panel signals any potential tyre pressure faults e.g. deflated or punctured tyre. For your safety the warning light requires you to stop immediately as soon as traffic conditions allow. Indicator lights Messages Displays Readings The wheel and associated pressure value are dis played in yellow. Adjust Tyre Pressure This indicates that tyre under inflation has been de tected. Check and adjust the pressure of the four tyres then reset the system. The wheel and associated pressure value are dis played in red. This indicates that the tyre concerned is punctured Puncture or severely underinflated. Adjust the pressure of the four tyres while cold and reset the system if the tyre is deflated. Replace the tyre or have it replaced if it is punctured. A wheel is no longer displayed. This indicates that at least one wheel is not fitted with Check Tyre Pressure Sensors a sensor e.g. emergency spare wheel or that the sensor is faulty. Consult an approved dealer. This indicates that the system has not been able to determine the pressure of each tyre. This may be Tyre Detection Failure caused by the use of a sensor not recommended by an approved dealer. The tyre pressure sensor moni toring system remains in operation ENG UD Syst me de surveillance de pression pneumatiques BFB Renault DRIVER CORRECTION DEVICES AND AIDS Depending on the vehicle this is com ABS anti lock braking posed of system ABS anti lock braking system In an emergency apply firm and Under heavy braking the ABS prevents continuous pressure to the brake ESC electronic stability control the wheels from locking allowing the pedal. There is no need to pump with understeer control and trac stopping distance to be managed and it repeatedly. The ABS will modu tion control keeping control of the vehicle. late the force applied in the braking emergency brake assist Under these circumstances the vehi system. cle can be steered to avoid an obstacle hill start assistance whilst braking. In addition this system rear wheel steering. can increase stopping distances par ticularly on roads with low surface grip Other driving assistance systems are wet ground etc detailed on the following pages. You will feel a pulsation through the These functions are an ad brake pedal each time the system is ditional aid in the event of activated. The ABS does not in any way critical driving conditions improve the vehicle s physical perform enabling the vehicle behav ance relating to the road surface and iour to be adapted to suit the driving roadholding. It is still essential to follow conditions. the rules of good driving practice such as driving at a safe distance from the These functions do not take the vehicle in front etc place of the driver. They do not increase the vehicle s limits and should not encourage you to drive more quickly. Therefore they can under no circumstances replace the vigilance or responsibil ity of the driver when manoeuvring the vehicle the driver must always be ready for sudden incidents which may occur when driving ENG UD Dispositifs de correction de conduite avec ch ssis actif BFB KFB Renault Driver correction devices and aids ABS Electronic Stability Control ESC up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU anti lock braking system ABS traction control ASR up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU emergency brake assist up to the end of the DU emergency braking up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU traction control up to the end of the DU electronic stability control ESC up to the end of the DU ESC electronic stability control up to the end of the DU Hill Start Assist up to the end of the DU rear drive wheels up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU DRIVER CORRECTION DEVICES AND AIDS Operating faults x and lit up on the in strument panel accompanied by the messages Check ABS Check braking system and Check ESC this indicates that the ABS the ESC and the emergency brake assist are disabled. Braking is always ena bxled D and lit on the instrument panel accom panied by the message WARNING Braking System this indicates a fault with the braking system. In both cases consult an approved dealer. Warning light re Your braking systems quires you to stop immedi are partially operational. ately for your own safety However it is dangerous as soon as traffic conditions to brake suddenly and allow. Switch off the engine and do it is essential to stop immediately not restart it. Contact an approved as soon as traffic conditions allow. Dealer. Contact an approved dealer ENG UD Dispositifs de correction de conduite avec ch ssis actif BFB KFB Renault operating faults up to the end of the DU faults operating faults up to the end of the DU DRIVER CORRECTION DEVICES AND AIDS Electronic stability control Understeer control Operating faults ESC with understeer control This system optimises the action of the When the system detects an operat and traction control ESC in the case of pronounced under ing fault the message Ch eck ESC and steer loss of front axle road holding. warning light and appear Electronic stability control ESC Traction control on the instrument panel. This system helps you to keep control In this case the ESC and traction con of the vehicle in critical driving condi This system helps to limit wheelspin of trol system are deactivated. Consult an tions avoiding an obstacle loss of grip the drive wheels and to control the ve authorised dealer. on a bend etc hicle when pulling away accelerating or decelerating. Operating principle Operating principle A sensor in the steering wheel detects Using the wheel sensors the system the direction selected by the driver. measures and compares the speed of Other sensors throughout the vehicle the drive wheels at all times and slows measure the actual direction. down their over rotation. If a wheel is starting to slip the system brakes au The system compares driver input to tomatically until the drive supplied be the actual trajectory of the vehicle and comes compatible with the level of grip corrects the trajectory if necessary by under the wheel again. controlling the braking of certain wheels The system also adjusts the engine and or engine power. In the event that speed to the grip available under the t he system is engaged indicator light wheels independently of the pressure flashes on the instrument panel. exerted on the accelerator pedal. In some situations driving on very wet ground snow mud etc. or driving with snow chains fitted the system may reduce the engine output to limit wheel spin ENG UD Dispositifs de correction de conduite avec ch ssis actif BFB KFB Renault DRIVER CORRECTION DEVICES AND AIDS Emergency brake assist Braking anticipation This system supplements the ABS Depending on the vehicle when you and helps reduce vehicle stopping dis rapidly release the accelerator the tances. system anticipates the braking ma noeuvre in order to reduce stopping Operating principle distances. The system is for detecting an emer Special cases gency braking situation. In this case When using the cruise control the braking assistance immediately de velops maximum power and may trig if you use the accelerator when you ger ABS regulation. release it the system may be trig gered ABS braking is maintained as long as the brake pedal is applied. if you do not use the accelerator the These functions are an ad system will not be triggered. ditional aid in the event of Hazard warning lights switching on critical driving conditions Operating faults Depending on the vehicle these may enabling the vehicle behav light up in the event of sudden decel When the system detects an operating iour to be adapted to suit the driving eration. fault the message WARNING Check conditions. Braking System appears on the instru ment panel along with the warn These functions do not take the place of the driver. They do not ing light. increase the vehicle s limits and Consult an approved dealer. should not encourage you to drive more quickly. Therefore they can under no circumstances replace the vigilance or responsibil ity of the driver when manoeuvring the vehicle the driver must always be ready for sudden incidents which may occur when driving ENG UD Dispositifs de correction de conduite avec ch ssis actif BFB KFB Renault DRIVER CORRECTION DEVICES AND AIDS Hill start assistance The hill start assistance Depending on the gradient of the in system cannot completely cline this system assists the driver prevent the vehicle from when starting on a hill. It prevents the rolling backwards in all sit vehicle from rolling backwards by au uations extremely steep gradients tomatically applying the brakes when etc the driver lifts his her foot off the brake In all cases the driver may depress pedal to depress the accelerator pedal. the brake pedal to prevent the vehi cle from rolling backwards. System operation The hill start assistance function It only operates when the gear lever is should not be used for prolonged in a position other than neutral other stops use the brake pedal. than N or P for automatic transmis sions and the vehicle is completely This function is not designed to im stationary brake pedal depressed mobilise the vehicle permanently. The system holds the vehicle for ap If necessary use the brake pedal to proximately seconds. The brakes are stop the vehicle. then released the vehicle will move ac The driver must remain particularly cording to the slope. vigilant when driving on slippery or low grip surfaces. Risk of serious injury ENG UD Dispositifs de correction de conduite avec ch ssis actif BFB KFB Renault DRIVER CORRECTION DEVICES AND AIDS Operating faults A B If the warning light together with the message Check power steering is displayed on the instru ment panel please contact an au thorised dealer. If the warning light together with the message WARNING Power Steering is displayed on the instrument panel this indicates a fault in the system. requires you to stop Rear wheel steering When driving at higher speeds the rear as soon as traffic conditions wheels steer in the same direction as On equipped vehicles this system allow. Contact an approved the front wheels figure B to optimise when the vehicle is being driven steers Dealer. the vehicle s stability. This is useful the rear wheels according to driving when changing lanes or when corner An impact to the underside of the conditions at low speed this system ing etc. vehicle e.g. striking a post raised offers manoeuvrability at higher speeds kerb or other street furniture may it optimises stability. Note the system configuration re result in damage to the vehicle e.g. sponsiveness etc. depends on the When driving at low speeds the rear deformation of an axle. mode selected in the MULTI SENSE wheels steer in the opposite direction to menu To avoid any risk of accident have the front wheels figure A to increase your vehicle checked by an ap the vehicle s manoeuvrability. This is proved Dealer. used when driving in towns on winding roads during parking manoeuvres etc ENG UD Dispositifs de correction de conduite avec ch ssis actif BFB KFB Renault rear drive wheels current page LANE DEPARTURE WARNING Using information from the camera the function warns the driver when a continuous or broken line is crossed or when approaching the roadside di vider barrier pavement embankment etc. without the direction indicator lights being activated. This function is an addi Note make sure the windscreen is not tional driving aid. This func obscured dirt mud snow condensa tion is not under any cir tion etc cumstances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle. The lane departure warning func tion does not correct the vehi cle s trajectory ENG UD Alerte sortie de voie BFB KFB Renault Lane departure warning driving aids up to the end of the DU lane departure warning up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU LANE DEPARTURE WARNING To disable the function press the switch as many times as required to select Lane departure warning off or depending on the vehicle Lane Keeping deactivated on the instru ment panel. Warning light goes out on the instrument panel. Operation W hen the function is activated the warning light and the left and right lines are displayed in grey on the instrument panel. The function is set to notify the Activation deactivation The function alerts the driver driver if by a vibration in the steering wheel To activate the function press the speed is between approximately and switch as many times as required to mph km h and mph select Lane Departure Warning on km h the warning light and the in the instrument panel. The Lane depar and dicator for the crossed line turn red. ture warning on message and the warning light and left right warning light are displayed on the in line indicators are coloured white. strument panel. The warning function is triggered if the vehicle breaches a line or ap proaches a roadside divider barrier pavement embankment etc. without the direction indicator lights being ac tivated. Each time the vehicle is started the function continues the mode saved the last time the engine was stopped ENG UD Alerte sortie de voie BFB KFB Renault LANE DEPARTURE WARNING Temporarily not available Conditions for non activation Very fast lane departure of the system driving continuously on a line The system cannot be activated when four seconds approximately after reverse gear is engaged changing lanes the field of vision of the camera is ob tight bends structed impaired visibility the warning light is displayed. activation of one of the direction indi The warning light and the left cator lights right line indicators turn to grey on the strong acceleration instrument panel. W hen the function is not available the Settings Alert adjust the line detection sen warning light and the left right in Vehicles fitted with a multimedia sitivity level. To do this select dicators turn to grey on the instrument screen. panel. Late line detected when cross To access the multimedia screen func ing tion settings refer to the multimedia instructions Standard line detected on ap proach Vibration adjust the steering wheel vibration level Early line detected nearby ENG UD Alerte sortie de voie BFB KFB Renault LANE DEPARTURE WARNING press the or control repeatedly to Operating faults reach the DRIVING ASSIST menu. In the event of a malfunction the left Press the switch OK and right line indicators and depend press the or control repeatedly to reach the Lane Departure Vibration ing on display style the warning or Lane Departure Sensitivity light disappear or stay grey on the in menu. Press the switch OK strument panel. press the or control repeatedly to In some cases they are accompa adjust the setting. Press OK. nied by the message Front camera to check or the warning light on the instrument panel. Consult an approved dealer. Adjustments continued Vehicles not fitted with a multimedia screen With the vehicle stopped press the switch as many times as required to reach the Vehicle tab press the or control repeatedly to reach the Settings menu. Press the switch OK. ENG UD Alerte sortie de voie BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page LANE DEPARTURE WARNING This function is an additional driving aid. This function is not under any circumstances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle. System servicing repairs In the event of an impact the camera alignment may be changed and its operation may consequently be affected. Deactivate the function then consult an authorised dealer. Any work in the area where the camera is located repairs replacements windscreen modifications etc. must be carried out by a qualified professional. Only an authorised dealer is qualified to service the system. In the event of system disturbance Some conditions can disrupt or damage the operation of the system for example windscreen obscured by dirt ice snow condensation etc. a complex environment tunnel etc. poor weather conditions snow hail black ice etc. poor visibility night fog etc. the road markings are irregular or difficult to distinguish e.g. partially erased excessive spacing distorted road surface being dazzled glaring sun lights of vehicles travelling in the opposite direction etc. the road is narrow winding or undulating tight bends etc. closely following a vehicle travelling in the same lane. Risk of false alarms or absence of warnings. ENG UD Alerte sortie de voie BFB KFB Renault LANE KEEPING ASSIST Note make sure the windscreen is not obscured dirt mud snow condensa tion etc Using information from the camera the function triggers corrective action on the vehicle steering system when a continuous or broken line is crossed or when approaching the roadside di vider barrier pavement embankment etc. without the direction indicator lights being activated. This function is an addi tional driving aid. This func tion is not under any circum stances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle. You can retake control of the ve hicle at any time by operating the steering wheel ENG UD Aide au maintien de voie BFB KFB Renault Lane Keeping Assist Lane Keeping Assist up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU lane departure warning up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU lane keeping assistance up to the end of the DU LANE KEEPING ASSIST To disable the function press the switch as many times as required to select Lane Keeping deactivated on the instrument panel. Warning light goes out on the in strument panel. Note deactivating the Lane Keeping Assist function causes deactivation of the Lane Departure Warning function. Activation deactivation To activate the function press the switch as many times as required to select Lane Keeping Assist on the in strument panel. The Lane Keeping activated message and warning light are displayed on the instrument panel. When Lane Keeping Assist is activated the Lane Departure Warning function is automatically activated Each time the vehicle is started the function continues the mode saved the last time the engine was stopped ENG UD Aide au maintien de voie BFB KFB Renault LANE KEEPING ASSIST In these cases Special cases the function triggers an action on the When using the function vehicle s steering system to correct If the system can no longer detect the vehicle trajectory any action by the driver on the steer the warning light and the indi ing wheel the warning light cator on the side of the breached appears in yellow on the instrument line turns to yellow on the instrument panel accompanied by the message panel. Keep hands on steering wheel and an audible warning. Note on bends the function allows for slightly cutting the bend. The audible warning is emitted along with the warning light and message If the corrective action on the steer until the driver takes control ing system is not sufficient the if the system is active for too long warning light and indicator on the side an audible warning is emitted along Operation of the breached line turn to red on the with flashing of the side indicators W hen the function is activated the instrument panel accompanied by a vi on the side of the vehicle concerned bration on the steering wheel. until the driver takes control. warning light and the left and right lines are displayed in grey on the instrument panel. The function is set to operate when the vehicle speed is between approxi mately mph km h and mph km h and if the warning light and correction indicators are col oured white. The function operates if the vehicle breaches a line or if the vehicle ap proaches the roadside divider barrier You can interrupt the trajectory cor pavement embankment etc. without rection at any time by moving the the direction indicator lights being ac steering wheel. tivated ENG UD Aide au maintien de voie BFB KFB Renault LANE KEEPING ASSIST Temporarily not available Conditions for non activation of the system Very fast lane departure driving continuously on a line The system cannot be activated when four seconds approximately after reverse gear is engaged changing lanes the field of vision of the camera is ob tight bends structed impaired visibility the warning light is displayed. activation of one of the direction indi cator lights The warning light and the left strong acceleration right line warning lights are displayed in emergency braking grey on the instrument panel. Adjustment If the function is unavailable the warning light and the left right correc Vehicles fitted with a multimedia tion warning lights appear in grey on screen. Alert adjust the line detection sen the instrument panel. sitivity level. To do this select To access the function settings from the multimedia screen please refer to the Late line detected when cross multimedia instructions ing Vibration adjust the steering wheel Standard line detected on ap vibration level proach Early line detected nearby. Please refer to the multimedia instruc tions for further information ENG UD Aide au maintien de voie BFB KFB Renault screens multimedia screen current page LANE KEEPING ASSIST press the or control repeatedly to Operating faults reach the DRIVING ASSIST menu. When the system detects an operating Press the switch OK fault the warning light appears press the or control repeatedly on the instrument panel along with the to reach the Lane Keeping sensitiv message Front camera to check. ity menu. Press the switch OK Consult an approved dealer. press the or control repeatedly to adjust the setting. Press OK. Adjustments continued Vehicles not fitted with a multimedia screen With the vehicle stopped press the switch as many times as required to reach the Vehicle tab press the or control repeatedly to reach the Settings menu. Press the switch OK. ENG UD Aide au maintien de voie BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page LANE KEEPING ASSIST This function is an additional driving aid. This function is not under any circumstances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle. System servicing repairs In the event of an impact the camera alignment may be changed and its operation may consequently be affected. Deactivate the function and consult an authorised dealer. Any work in the area where the camera is located repairs replacements windscreen modifications etc. must be carried out by a qualified professional. Only an authorised dealer is qualified to service the system. In the event of system disturbance Some conditions can disrupt or damage the operation of the system for example windscreen obscured by dirt ice snow condensation etc. a complex environment tunnel etc. poor weather conditions snow rain hail black ice etc. poor visibility night fog etc. the road markings are irregular or difficult to distinguish e.g. partially erased excessive spacing distorted road surface being dazzled glaring sun lights of vehicles travelling in the opposite direction etc. the road is narrow winding or undulating tight bends etc. closely following a vehicle travelling in the same lane. In this case the Lane Keeping Assist may react incorrectly or not at all. Risk of unwanted incorrect correction or no correction of trajectory. Deactivating the function You must disable the function if the area of the camera has been damaged on the windscreen side or the interior rear view mirror side the road is slippery snow black ice aquaplaning gravel etc. poor visibility night fog etc. the windscreen is cracked or distorted do not carry out windscreen repairs in this area have it changed by an Authorised Dealer the vehicle is towing a trailer or a caravan the vehicle is entering an area with several surface markings an area with road works etc ENG UD Aide au maintien de voie BFB KFB Renault BLIND SPOT WARNING C B A A B Using information from the sensors in Special feature stalled on each side of the rear bumper Make sure that the radar area C is not area C the function warns the driver obscured by stickers mud snow etc when another vehicle appears in the If a radar is obscured the message detection area A Side radars no visibility will appear on and or the instrument panel. Clean the area when there is a risk of collision with where the sensors are located. a vehicle that is in area B driving faster than you. This function is an addi tional driving aid. This func The function warns you when the ve tion is not under any cir hicle is travelling at a speed above ap cumstances intended to proximately mph km h. replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle ENG UD Avertisseur d angle mort BFB KFB Renault Blind spot warning driving aids up to the end of the DU blind spot warning signal up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU blind spot warning signal up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU screens multimedia screen up to the end of the DU indicators up to the end of the DU BLIND SPOT WARNING press the switch OK again to acti vate or deactivate the function function activated function deactivated Activation deactivation press the or control repeatedly to reach the Settings menu. Press the Vehicles fitted with a multimedia switch OK screen press the or control repeatedly to To activate or deactivate the function reach the DRIVING ASSIST menu. refer to the multimedia instructions. Press the switch OK Select ON or OFF. press the or control repeatedly to reach the Blind spot alert menu and Vehicles not fitted with a multimedia press OK screen With the vehicle stopped press the switch as many times as required The system s detection range oper to reach the Vehicle tab ates according to a standard lane width. When driving in a narrow lane the function may warn you when a vehicle is detected further away than the nearest lane ENG UD Avertisseur d angle mort BFB KFB Renault BLIND SPOT WARNING A B A B Indicator Operation An indicator light is located on each The function warns you when the speed rear view mirror. of your vehicle exceeds approximately mph km h Note clean the rear view mirrors reg when another vehicle is in the blind ularly so that the indicators can be spot area A and travelling in the seen. same direction as your vehicle when a vehicle approaches quickly from the rear in an adjacent lane within the range of detection area B. If you overtake another vehicle the in dicator will only come on if that vehi cle remains for a long enough period in your vehicle s blind spot A. The function does not notify the driver if the other vehicles are not moving ENG UD Avertisseur d angle mort BFB KFB Renault BLIND SPOT WARNING Display E Conditions for non function Direction indicator activated the When driving on a road with tight warning light flashes when the func bends tion detects a vehicle in the blind spot in reverse. D warning area and or a vehicle is rapidly approaching from the rear on the side If the vehicle is equipped with a towbar towards which you will turn the wheel. recognised by the system the Trailer If you cancel the direction indicator the blind spot alert off message displayed function will return to the initial warning on the instrument panel informs you display D. that the function is not operational. For E information on the range of equipment adapted to your vehicle we advise you to consult an approved Dealer. Display D First warning direction indicator not activated the warning light indicates that a vehicle is detected in the blind spot area and or that a vehicle is rap idly approaching from the rear in an ad jacent lane. When the engine is started the system adopts the last status saved before the ignition was switched off refer to the previous pages ENG UD Avertisseur d angle mort BFB KFB Renault BLIND SPOT WARNING Operating faults If the system detects a fault the mes sage Side radars to check is displayed on the instrument panel. Consult an ap proved dealer. The system s detection range operates according to a standard lane width. If you are driving in wide traf fic lanes the system might not be able to detect a vehicle in the blind spot. The system might be disrupted momentarily if it is exposed to strong electromagnetic waves as beneath high tension power lines or to very poor weather conditions heavy rain snow etc Remain aware of driving Due to the presence of sensors conditions. behind the bumper it is advisable to entrust any operation on the bumper There is a risk of accidents. repair replacement paintwork etc. to a qualified professional ENG UD Avertisseur d angle mort BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page BLIND SPOT WARNING This function is an additional driving aid. This function is not under any circumstances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle. The driver should always adapt their speed to the traffic conditions regardless of the system indications. The system should under no circumstances be taken to be an obstacle detector or an anti collision system. System servicing repairs In the event of an impact radar alignment may be changed and its operation will consequently be affected. Deactivate the function and consult an authorised dealer. Any work in the area where the radars are located repairs replacements etc. must be carried out by a qualified profes sional. Only an authorised dealer is qualified to service the system. System disturbance Some conditions can disturb or damage the operation of the system such as complex surroundings metal bridges tunnels roads with barriers at the edge etc. poor weather conditions snow hail black ice etc Risk of false alarms or absence of warnings In the event of the system behaving abnormally deactivate it and consult an authorised dealer ENG UD Avertisseur d angle mort BFB KFB Renault BLIND SPOT WARNING Limitation of the system operation The radar area should be kept clean and free of any modifications in order to ensure the proper operation of the system. Small objects moving close to the vehicle motorcycles bicycles pedestrians etc. may not be recognised by the system. When turning into a bend the radars may temporarily cease to detect vehicles in adjacent lanes. The function may warn you late when two other vehicles are approaching from the rear side by side in the adjacent lanes driving on a lane road and at a much higher speed than your vehicle. The system may not provide a warning when the other vehicles are travelling at a significantly different speed. If the vehicle is being overtaken by a long vehicle e.g. heavy goods vehicle overtaking at a similar speed to the vehicle the system may interrupt the warning before the end of the manoeuvre. The vehicle is travelling on a winding road. Deactivating the function You must disable the function if the radar area has been damaged rear bumper the vehicle is fitted with a towbar that is not recognised by the system ENG UD Avertisseur d angle mort BFB KFB Renault SAFE DISTANCE ALERT The function is activated when the vehi cle speed is between about and mph and km h. Location of the camera Make sure the windscreen is not ob scured by dirt mud snow condensa tion etc Location of the radar Ensure that the radar area is not ob structed by dirt mud snow a badly fitted front number plate impacted modified including painting or hidden by any accessory fitted on the front of the vehicle on the grille or logo etc Using the information from the radar and camera this function informs the driver of the time interval between their vehicle and the vehicle in front so that a safe stopping distance between the two vehicles can be maintained. This function is an addi tional driving aid. This func tion is not under any cir cumstances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle ENG UD Alerte distance de s curit BFB KFB Renault Safe distance alert safety distance warning up to the end of the DU safety distances up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU SAFE DISTANCE ALERT press the or control repeatedly to reach the Distance warning menu. Press the switch OK press the switch OK again to acti vate or deactivate the function function activated function deactivated Activating deactivating the Vehicles not fitted with a multimedia function screen With the vehicle stopped press the Vehicles fitted with a multimedia switch as many times as required screen to reach the Vehicle tab To activate or deactivate the function press the or control repeatedly to refer to the multimedia instructions. reach the Settings menu. Press the Select ON or OFF. switch OK press the or control repeatedly to reach the DRIVING ASSIST menu. Press the switch OK Each time the vehicle is started the function continues the mode saved the last time the engine was stopped ENG UD Alerte distance de s curit BFB KFB Renault screens multimedia screen current page SAFE DISTANCE ALERT C orange the time interval falls be tween around and seconds in A sufficient distance between the two vehicles D red the time interval is less than B or equal to around one second very insufficient distance between the two The measurement is dis vehicles. played for information the If the interval between the two vehi system does not carry out C cles is less than approximately. sec any action on the vehicle. onds the indicator and the D display This function is not designed for use will flash in red on the instrument panel in urban conditions or for a dynamic D along with. s. driving style sudden cornering ac Under certain conditions the time inter celeration braking etc. but rather val may not be displayed for stable driving conditions. Operation while cornering The function does not interact with With the function activated the in the braking system. when changing lane dicator is displayed on the instrument The radar and camera zones must panel and informs the driver of the dis if the vehicle in front is sufficiently far be kept clean and free of any tam tance between their vehicle and the ve or outside the range of the radar or pering in order to ensure the proper hicle in front. camera. operation of the system. A grey function not operational Any work carried out in the area A green no vehicle detected where the radar or camera is lo cated repairs replacements wind B green the time interval is greater screen and or bumper modifica than or equal to around two seconds tions etc. must be carried out by a distance between the two vehicles qualified professional. adapted to your speed. ENG UD Alerte distance de s curit BFB KFB Renault SAFE DISTANCE ALERT This function is an additional driving aid. This function is not under any circumstances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle. System servicing repairs In the event of an impact the radar and or camera alignment may be changed and its operation may consequently be af fected. Deactivate the function and consult an authorised dealer. Any work carried out in the area where the radar and or camera is located replacements repairs windscreen and or bumper modifications etc. must be carried out by a qualified professional. Only an authorised dealer is qualified to service the system. In the event of system disturbance obstruction of the windscreen or the bumper by dirt glass snow condensation etc. a complex environment metal bridge tunnel etc. poor weather conditions snow hail black ice etc. poor visibility night fog etc. poor contrast between the vehicle preceding it and the surrounding area e.g. white vehicle in a snowy area etc. being dazzled glaring sun lights of vehicles travelling in the opposite direction etc. the road is narrow winding and undulating tight bends etc. Risk of erroneous false alarms ENG UD Alerte distance de s curit BFB KFB Renault ACTIVE EMERGENCY BRAKING Depending on the reactivity of the driver the system can assist with brak ing in order to limit damage or prevent a collision. Location of the camera Make sure the windscreen is not ob scured by dirt mud snow condensa tion etc Location of the radar Ensure that the radar area is not ob structed by dirt mud snow a badly This system can apply maximum fitted front number plate impacted braking to the vehicle until it is modified including painting or hidden completely stationary if necessary. by any accessory fitted on the front of For safety reasons always wear Using information from the radar and the vehicle on the grille or logo etc your seat belt when travelling in camera the system calculates the your vehicle and make sure that it distance which separates it from the is loaded so that no items can be vehicle in front and any surrounding pe thrown forward and hit the occu destrians and cyclists. pants. The system informs the driver if there is a risk of head on collision to enable appropriate emergency manoeuvres pressing the brake pedal and or turn This function is an addi ing the steering wheel. tional driving aid. This func tion is not under any circum stances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle ENG UD Freinage actif d urgence BFB KFB Renault Active emergency braking driving aids up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU pedestrian detection up to the end of the DU vehicle detection up to the end of the DU emergency active braking up to the end of the DU emergency braking up to the end of the DU ACTIVE EMERGENCY BRAKING Operation Special features of warnings Depending on the speed the warning Detection of vehicles and braking may be activated simulta When driving in the event of a risk of neously. collision with the vehicle in front the system will Special features of stationary vehicles warn of the risk of collision when the vehicle speed is between mph Stationary vehicles are detected when km h and mph km h your vehicle is being driven at a speed the message Brake is displayed between approximately mph km h in red on the instrument panel ac and mph km h. The system is companied by an audible warning. not active and does not emit a warning for stationary vehicles when you exceed If the driver presses the brake pedal approximately mph km h. and the system still detects a risk of collision the brake force is in creased If the vehicle stopped as a result of active emergency braking the driver braking may be triggered when must keep the vehicle stationary by ap the vehicle is moving slower than ap plying the brake pedal. proximately mph km h if the driver does not respond to the warn Note if the driver uses the vehicle con ing and a collision becomes immi trols steering wheel pedals etc. the nent. system may delay certain operations or not activate. In the event of emergency manoeu vre you can stop braking at any moment by tapping the accelerator pedal or turning the steering wheel as a collision avoidance manoeuvre ENG UD Freinage actif d urgence BFB KFB Renault ACTIVE EMERGENCY BRAKING Detection of pedestrians and Special features of warnings cyclists Depending on the speed the warning depending on the vehicle and braking may be activated simulta When there is a risk of collision with a neously. cyclist or pedestrian while the vehicle is moving the system will warn of the risk of collision when the vehicle speed is between mph km h and mph km h the message Brake is displayed in red on the instrument panel ac companied by an audible warning. If the driver presses the brake pedal and the system still detects a risk of collision the brake force is in creased If the vehicle stopped as a result of active emergency braking the driver trigger braking if the driver does must keep the vehicle stationary by ap not respond to the warning and the plying the brake pedal. collision becomes imminent. Note if the driver uses the vehicle con trols steering wheel pedals etc. the system may delay certain operations or not activate. In the event of emergency manoeu vre you can stop braking at any moment by tapping the accelerator pedal or turning the steering wheel as a collision avoidance manoeuvre ENG UD Freinage actif d urgence BFB KFB Renault ACTIVE EMERGENCY BRAKING press the or control repeatedly to reach the Active braking menu and press the OK switch. Press the switch OK again to activate o r deactivate the function function activated function deactivated U pon deactivation of the system the warning light illuminates o r de pending on the vehicle the warning light illuminates on the instru ment panel. Activating or deactivating the For vehicles not fitted with a system multimedia screen With the vehicle stopped press the Vehicles fitted with a multimedia switch as many times as required screen to reach the Vehicle tab To activate or deactivate the function press the or control repeatedly to refer to the multimedia instructions. reach the Settings menu. Press the switch OK Select ON or OFF. press the or control repeatedly to reach the DRIVING ASSIST menu. Press the switch OK This system is reactivated each time the ignition is switched on ENG UD Freinage actif d urgence BFB KFB Renault screens multimedia screen current page ACTIVE EMERGENCY BRAKING Temporarily not available Operating faults If the sys tem detects a temporary a nd or depending on the fault the warning light illumi n ates or depending on the vehicle the vehicle illuminated on the instru ment panel indicate that the system has warning light illuminates on the detected an operating fault. Consult an instrument panel. approved dealer. The possible causes are the system is temporarily blinded glare from the sun dipped beam headlights bad weather conditions etc The system will be operational again when visibility conditions are better the system is temporarily interrupted e.g. the windscreen or the front or rear bumper is obscured by dirt mud snow condensation etc In this case park the vehicle and switch off the engine. Clean the windscreen and front bumper. When you next start the engine the warning light and the message go out. If this is not the case this may arise from another cause contact an Approved Dealer ENG UD Freinage actif d urgence BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page ACTIVE EMERGENCY BRAKING Active emergency braking This function is an additional driving aid. This function is not under any circumstances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle. The triggering of this function may be delayed or prevented when the system detects clear signs of control of the vehicle by the driver action on the steer ing wheel pedals etc The system cannot be activated when the gearbox lever is in neutral or the clutch pedal has been depressed during approximately ten seconds when the parking brake is activated when the Electronic Stability Program ESC has started. System servicing repairs In the event of an impact the radar and or camera alignment may be changed and its operation may consequently be af fected. Deactivate the function and consult an authorised dealer. Any work in the area where the radar and or camera is located repairs replacements windscreen modifications etc. must be carried out by a qualified professional. Only an authorised dealer is qualified to service the system ENG UD Freinage actif d urgence BFB KFB Renault ACTIVE EMERGENCY BRAKING System disturbance Some conditions can disturb or damage the operation of the system such as a complex environment metal bridge tunnel etc. poor weather conditions snow hail black ice etc. poor visibility night fog etc. poor contrast between an object vehicle pedestrian etc. and the surrounding area e.g. pedestrian dressed in white lo cated in a snowy area being dazzled glaring sun lights of vehicles travelling in the opposite direction etc. obstruction of the windscreen or the radar area by dirt ice snow condensation etc. In these conditions the system may not warn the driver or may brake inadvertently. Limitation of the system operation Each time the vehicle is started the system carries out a calibration according to the vehicle surroundings and may be inac tive for a length of time between approximately two and five minutes a vehicle moving in the opposite direction will not trigger any alert or affect operation of the system the radar and camera zones must be kept clean and free of any modifications in order to ensure the proper operation of the system the system may not respond to small vehicles such as motorbikes as effectively as to other vehicles the system may not operate properly when the road surface is slippery rain snow black ice etc. to ensure correct operation the system needs to distinguish the complete outline of the pedestrian. So the system cannot detect pedestrians in the darkness or in poor lighting conditions partially visible pedestrians pedestrians less than approximately cm tall pedestrians carrying large objects In these conditions the system may not warn the driver or may brake inadvertently ENG UD Freinage actif d urgence BFB KFB Renault ACTIVE EMERGENCY BRAKING Deactivating the function You must disable the function if the brake lights are not functioning the area of the camera has been damaged e.g. on the inside or outside of the windscreen the front of the vehicle was damaged impact scratch on the radar etc. the vehicle is being towed breakdowns the windscreen is cracked or distorted do not carry out windscreen repairs in this area have it changed by an approved dealer you are not driving on a paved road. In the event of the system behaving abnormally deactivate it and consult an authorised dealer. Halting the function You can halt the active emergency braking function at any time by tapping the accelerator pedal or by turning the steering wheel in an avoidance manoeuvre ENG UD Freinage actif d urgence BFB KFB Renault FATIGUE DETECTION WARNING The fatigue detection warning is a func tion which is useful on monotonous roads motorways high speed roads etc It analyses driver behaviour and takes account of events to inform you of any risk of fatigue such as steering wheel movement driver actions on other devices indi cators windscreen washer etc. time spent driving without stopping Activation deactivation Vehicles fitted with a multimedia screen To activate or deactivate the function refer to the multimedia instructions. This function is an addi Select ON or OFF. tional driving aid in case of risk of fatigue. This function does not take the place of the driver. Under no circumstances should this function replace the driver s care or responsibility whilst driving. When the engine is started the system remembers its position when the ignition was last switched off ENG UD D tecteur de fatigue BFB KFB Renault Fatigue detection warning driving aids up to the end of the DU fatigue detection warning up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU screens multimedia screen up to the end of the DU FATIGUE DETECTION WARNING repeatedly press the control up or Note down until you reach the Fatigue if the warning is not deleted by press detection warning menu then press ing switch OK the beep repeats the switch OK. the function may interpret certain press the OK switch again to acti driving styles as a sign of tiredness vate or deactivate the function. sporty driving incorrect driving etc. or driving along a road which is in Operation poor condition. The function is set to notify the driver if Operating faults the vehicle speed is greater than ap If the system detects a fault the mes proximately. mph km h sage Check fatigue warning is dis and played on the instrument panel. Call an Approximately minutes have approved Dealer. passed since the deletion of the pre Vehicles not fitted with a multimedia vious warning. screen The function triggers an alert if the With the vehicle at a standstill press system detects repeated signs of fa and hold the switch OK to access tigue in the driver at the steering wheel. the settings menu When a risk of fatigue is detected repeatedly press the control up or the message Fatigue warning have a down until you reach the Driving as break is displayed on the instrument sistance menu. Press the switch panel accompanied by a beep. OK Press switch OK to delete the warn ing. It is advisable to stop as soon as pos sible for a break ENG UD D tecteur de fatigue BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page DETECTION OF ROAD SIGNS Note make sure the windscreen is not For vehicles equipped with a navigation obscured dirt mud snow condensa system and if the vehicle is travelling in tion etc a country where the speed units differ from those of the vehicle the system For vehicles which are equipped with it displays the speed limit sign in the unit the system also uses information from of the country alongside the speed limit the navigation system. converted to the unit used by the vehi Once the speed limiter is activated you cle s instrument panel. can adjust the speed limiter indication For countries where the speed limit is displayed by the system. reduced during rainy weather on some If the limit speed is exceeded the dis types of roads on vehicles equipped play panel is modified to warn the driver. with a navigation system the system can modify the limited speed after a few seconds of wiping the windscreen. Special situations The system detects speed limit signs The system does not take into account on the side of the road and displays the exceptional speed limit measures such speed limit on the instrument panel. as peak pollution days. It mainly uses information taken from the camera attached to the wind screen behind the rear view mirror ENG UD D tection de panneaux de signalisation routi re BFB KFB Renault Detection of road signs overspeed warning up to the end of the DU sign detection overspeed warning up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU DETECTION OF ROAD SIGNS press the or control repeatedly to reach the Settings menu and press OK press the or control repeatedly to reach the DRIVING ASSIST menu and press OK press the or control repeatedly to reach the Speed alert menu and press OK press the OK switch to activate or deactivate the function function activated function deactivated Activating deactivating the With the function activated depend system ing on local regulations you can acti vate the Risk area display option. The Vehicles fitted with a multimedia system will notify you of the distance screen separating you from this zone and while you are travelling in the zone. To activate or deactivate the function refer to the multimedia instructions. Vehicles not fitted with a multimedia Select ON or OFF. screen With the vehicle stopped press the switch as many times as required to reach the Vehicle tab. ENG UD D tection de panneaux de signalisation routi re BFB KFB Renault screens multimedia screen current page DETECTION OF ROAD SIGNS If the speed limit is exceeded the circle around the panel flashes warning light along with a sound signal to warn the driver. Operation Varying the limit speed If the speed limit notification differs from Warning lights the detected speed value press and The function displays the following hold the following switches warning lights RES to increase the notification Speed limit road signs. speed to the detected speed Additional road signs start or end SET to reduce the notification of No overtaking zone slip road speed to the detected speed. speed limit speed in case of a cara van speed limit with length of appli cation etc ENG UD D tection de panneaux de signalisation routi re BFB KFB Renault DETECTION OF ROAD SIGNS Operating faults The system cannot detect the speed limit if the windscreen is not clean the camera is blinded by the sun there is insufficient visibility night fog etc. the signs are not legible snow etc. or are hidden by another vehicle or by trees the information taken from the navi gation system is not up to date. This function is an additional driving aid. This function is not under any circumstances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle. The driver should always adapt their speed to the traffic conditions re gardless of the system indications. The system enables maximum speed signs to be detected and does not detect other signs. The driver should not however ignore signs which are not detected by the system and should as a priority comply with the traffic signage and the highway code. In the event of poor visibility fog snow frost etc. it is possible that the system may not indicate the correct speed to the driver. The driver should always adapt their speed to the traffic conditions regardless of the system indications ENG UD D tection de panneaux de signalisation routi re BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page SPEED LIMITER The speed limiter function helps you Controls stay within the driving speed limit that Speed limiter On Off switch. you choose known as the limit speed. Cruise control On Off switch. Depending on the vehicle the speed limiter is linked with the Hill Descent Switch to activate and decrease the Control function which uses the brak limit speed SET. ing system to optimise downhill speed Switch to activate and increase the limitation. limit speed or to set the stored limit The presence of the Hill Descent speed RES. Control function can be identified by Speed limiter function standby with the presence of the button. limited speed memory. You can link the speed limiter to the Road sign detection function ENG UD Limiteur de vitesse BFB KFB Renault Speed limiter speed limiter up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU cruise control speed limiter up to the end of the DU overspeed warning up to the end of the DU controls up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU SPEED LIMITER Driving Switching on To store the current speed press the switch RES or the switch SET When a limit speed has been set but Press switch. The warning light ap the limit speed replaces the dashes not yet reached driving is similar to pears in grey. The Speed limiter ON and depending on the vehicle the driving a vehicle without the speed lim message appears on the instrument warning light appears in white. iter function. panel accompanied by dashes to indi The minimum stored speed is mph cate that the speed limiter function is in Once you have reached the stored km h. operation waiting to store a limit speed. speed no effort on the accelera tor pedal will allow you to exceed the programmed speed except in an emergency refer to information on Exceeding the limit speed ENG UD Limiteur de vitesse BFB KFB Renault SPEED LIMITER Exceeding the limit speed Limited speed cannot be maintained It is possible to exceed the limit speed When driving down a steep gradient at any time. To do this press the accel the system may not maintain the limit erator pedal firmly and fully beyond speed the limit speed flashes in red the resistance point. on the instrument panel and an audi While the speed is being exceeded the ble signal sounds at regular intervals to speed limiter flashes red on the instru inform you of this situation. ment panel. Then release the accelera tor pedal the speed limiter function will return as soon as you reach a speed lower than the memorised speed. Varying the limit speed The limit speed may be changed by Cruise control speed pressing repeatedly or holding down limiter with Hill Descent switch RES to increase speed Control the function may act on the switch SET to reduce speed. braking system. Cruise control speed limiter with out Hill Descent Control The function never interacts with the braking system. Please note that you must always keep your feet close to the pedals If the speed limiter is not in order to react in an emergency. available after several at tempts to activate contact an approved dealer ENG UD Limiteur de vitesse BFB KFB Renault SPEED LIMITER Putting the function on Switching off the function standby The speed limiter function is inter The speed limiter function is suspended rupted when you press switch. The limit when you press the switch. In this speed is stored and displayed in grey case the speed is no longer stored on the instrument panel. when you press the switch. In this case the cruise control is selected Recalling the limit speed and there is no stored speed. If a speed has been stored it can be re The warning light disappears from called by pressing the switch. the instrument panel to confirm that the When the speed limiter is set to function is no longer active. standby pressing the switch re activates the function without taking into account the memorised speed the speed at which the vehicle is moving is taken into account ENG UD Limiteur de vitesse BFB KFB Renault CRUISE CONTROL Switch the function to standby with cruising speed saved. Speed limiter On Off switch. This function is an addi tional driving aid. The func tion does not take the place of the driver. Therefore it can under no circum The cruise control function helps you to The presence of the Hill Descent stances replace the driver s respon maintain your driving speed at a speed Control function can be identified by sibility to respect speed limits and to that you choose called the cruising the presence of the button. be vigilant the driver must always speed. be ready to brake. This cruising speed may be set at any Controls Cruise control must not be used in speed above mph km h. heavy traffic on undulating or slip Cruise control On Off switch. Depending on the vehicle cruise con pery roads black ice aquaplan trol is linked with Hill Descent Control Switch to activate and decrease ing gravel and during bad weather which uses the braking system to opti cruising speed SET. fog rain side winds etc mise downhill cruise control. Switch to activate and increase There is a risk of accidents. cruising speed or to recall the mem orised cruising speed RES ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse BFB KFB Renault Cruise control cruise control up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU cruise control speed limiter up to the end of the DU controls up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU CRUISE CONTROL Switching on Activating cruise control Driving Press switch. While the vehicle is moving a steady Once a cruising speed is registered speed above approximately mph and the cruise control function is active The warning light appears in grey. km h press the SET switch you may lift your foot off the accelera The Cruise control ON message ap or the RES switch the function tor pedal. pears on the instrument panel accom is activated and the current speed is panied by dashes to indicate that the taken into account. cruise control function is in operation The cruising speed replaces the and waiting to memorise a cruising dashes. Cruise control is confirmed speed. when the memorised speed and warn ing light appear in green. If you try to activate the function below mph km h the message Invalid Please note that you must Speed will be displayed and the func keep your feet close to the tion will remain inactive. pedals in order to react in an emergency ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse BFB KFB Renault CRUISE CONTROL Exceeding the cruising speed The cruising speed may be exceeded at any time by depressing the accelera tor pedal. While it is being exceeded the cruising speed flashes in red on the instrument panel. Cruise control with cruising Then release the accelerator pedal speed maintained during gear after a few seconds the vehicle will changing automatically return to its set cruising This function maintains the cruise speed. control speed before and after a gear change without any action re Cruising speed cannot be quired from the driver. maintained When driving down a steep gradient the system may be unable to main Adjusting the cruising speed tain the cruising speed the memorised Cruise control speed speed will flash in red on the instrument The cruising speed may be changed by limiter with Hill Descent panel and an audible signal sounds at pressing the following repeatedly Control regular intervals to inform you of this the function may act on the the switch SET to reduce the situation. braking system. speed the switch RES to increase the Cruise control speed limiter with speed. out Hill Descent Control The function never interacts with the Note press and hold one of the braking system. switches to modify speed by succes sive increments. Please note that you must always keep your feet close to the pedals in order to react in an emergency. If the cruise control is no longer available after sev eral attempts to activate it contact an approved dealer ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse BFB KFB Renault CRUISE CONTROL Putting the function on Returning to the cruising speed NB if the speed previously stored is standby If a speed is stored it can be recalled much higher than the current speed the vehicle will accelerate more rapidly once you are sure that the road condi The function is set to standby if you to reach this threshold. tions are suitable traffic road surface switch weather conditions etc Press the When the cruise control is set to the brake pedal switch RES if the vehicle speed is standby pressing switch SET re above mph km h. activates the cruise control function the clutch pedal for a prolonged without taking into account the stored period or upon prolonged neutral po When the speed is stored cruise con speed it is the speed at which the vehi sition on vehicles equipped with a trol activation is confirmed by the dis cle is moving that is taken into account. manual gearbox play in green of the cruising speed and depending on the vehicle the warn shifting to neutral position on ve ing light is displayed. hicles equipped with an automatic gearbox. The cruising speed is stored and dis played in grey on the instrument panel ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse BFB KFB Renault CRUISE CONTROL Switching off the function The warning light disappears from the instrument panel to confirm that the The cruise control function is inter function is no longer active. rupted when you press the switch. In this case the speed is no longer stored when you press the switch. In this case the speed limiter is selected and there is no stored speed. Putting the cruise control on standby or switching it off does not cause a rapid reduction in speed you must brake by depressing the brake pedal ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse BFB KFB Renault ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL Based on information from a radar According to conditions on the road This function is an addi or camera the adaptive cruise con traffic weather etc. the adaptive tional driving aid. The func trol function or Stop and Go adap cruise control function can be activated tion does not take the place tive cruise control function on vehicles mph km h to mph km of the driver. equipped with an automatic gearbox on vehicles fitted with an automatic enables you to maintain the speed se Therefore it can under no circum gearbox lected known as cruising speed while stances replace the driver s respon mph km h to mph keeping a following distance with the sibility to respect speed limits and km on vehicles fitted with a vehicle in front in the same lane. safe distances and to be vigilant manual gearbox. the driver must always be ready to On vehicles fitted with an automatic The function is indicated by the brake. gearbox if the vehicle in front stops symbol. the Stop and Go adaptive cruise control The driver must always be in con function may apply the vehicle brakes Note trol of the vehicle. The driver must to a full stop before allowing the vehicle the driver must observe the maxi always adapt their speed according to move on. mum speed limit and safe distances to the surroundings and traffic con in the country where they are driving ditions. The adaptive cruise control The system controls acceleration and the adaptive cruise control can brake must only be used on a motorway deceleration of your vehicle using the the vehicle up to a third of the brak or multi lane road separated by a engine and braking system. ing capacity. Depending on the situ barrier. The cruise control must not The system s maximum range is ap ation the driver may need to brake be used in heavy traffic on wind proximately m. This may vary ac harder. ing or slippery roads black ice aq cording to the road conditions ground uaplaning gravel or during bad relief weather conditions etc weather fog rain side winds etc There is a risk of accidents. The adaptive cruise control does not trigger an emergency stop and its braking capability is limited ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault Adaptive cruise control adaptive cruise control up to the end of the DU driving aids adaptive cruise control up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU controls up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL Location of the camera Controls Cruising speed activation storage and decrease switch SET. Make sure the windscreen is not ob Safe distance settings scured by dirt mud snow condensa Switch to activate and increase cruis Switch the function to standby with tion etc ing speed or to recall the memorised cruising speed saved. cruising speed RES. Adaptive cruise control main stop Location of the radar start switch. Ensure that the radar area is not ob structed dirt mud snow a badly fitted attached front number plate im pacted modified including paintwork or hidden by any accessory fitted on the The radar and camera front of the vehicle on the grille or logo zones must be kept clean etc and free of any tampering in order to ensure the proper operation of the system ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL Switching on The cruising speed replaces the dashes and cruise control is confirmed Press switch. by the appearance of the cruising Warning light appears in grey and speed in green and warning light. the message Adaptive Cruise Ctl ON If you try to activate the function when appears on the instrument panel ac the vehicle speed is over mph companied by dashes to indicate that km or below mph km h for the cruise control function is activated vehicles fitted with a manual gearbox and waiting to store a cruising speed. the message Invalid Speed is dis played and the function is not activated. This function cannot be activated when Once a cruising speed is memorised the parking brake is applied and the cruise control function is active the Park Assist function is already you may lift your foot off the accelera activated tor pedal. The message Adaptive Cruise Ctl una Special feature on vehicles with vailable is displayed on the instrument an automatic gearbox if the vehicle Displays panel. speed is below approximately mph A daptive cruise control warning km h the cruising speed will auto light. Activating cruise control matically be set to mph km h. The vehicle will accelerate until it Vehicle in front. When the vehicle is stationary vehicles reaches the stored cruising speed. Stored safe distance equipped with an automatic gearbox or when the vehicle is moving at a steady Stored cruising speed. speed all vehicles press the SET or RES switch to activate the func tion and store the current speed. The minimum cruising speed is mph km h. Important you should keep your feet near the pedals at all times to prepare for any event ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL Safe distance control activation As soon as cruise control is activated the default safe distance is displayed in green on the instrument panel. The default safe distance corresponds to approximately two seconds see follow A ing pages. B If the system detects a vehicle in your C lane an outline of a vehicle appears above the distance gauge on the in D strument panel. Your vehicle adapts its speed to that of the vehicle in front and applies the brakes if necessary the brake lights Setting the cruising speed Adjusting the following come on in order to maintain the dis tance displayed on the instrument You can vary the speed by repeatedly distance panel. pressing for a small variation or press You can vary the safe distance from the Note the size of the outline varies ac ing and holding for a larger variation vehicle in front at any time by pressing cording to the distance separating you switch or switch repeatedly. from the vehicle in front. The larger the use the SET switch to reduce The horizontal distance gauge on the outline the closer the vehicle in front. the speed instrument panel indicates the various use the RES switch to increase available safe distances the speed. distance gauge A long distance corresponding to approximately. seconds. ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL Adjusting the safe distance cont. distance gauge B intermediate dis tance corresponding to approxi mately seconds distance gauge C intermediate dis tance corresponding to approxi mately. seconds distance gauge D short distance corresponding to approximately. seconds. The selected distance gauge appears in green on the instrument panel. The other gauges remain in grey. Note the distance must be set accord Exceeding the cruising speed Then release the accelerator pedal the cruise control and safe distance ing to the traffic level local regulation The cruising speed may be exceeded control will automatically resume the and weather conditions. at any time by applying the accelerator speed and distance instructions that pedal. you had previously selected. If it is exceeded the cruising speed appears in red. Overtaking manoeuvre The distance gauge flashes if the dis If you wish to overtake the vehicle in tance between your vehicle and the front activating the indicator will tem vehicle in front is less than the safe porarily cancel the safe distance con distance selected the safe distance trol and enable an acceleration speed control function is no longer active. sufficient to complete overtaking. The safe distance is adjusted by de fault on the distance gauge B ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL Stopping and starting on Putting the function on vehicles fitted with an standby automatic gearbox You can set the function to standby If the vehicle in front slows down the when system adapts its speed to a complete you press switch stop if necessary e.g. in heavy traffic. you apply the brake pedal while the The vehicle stops a few metres from vehicle is moving. the vehicle in front. The Stop and Start The function is deactivated by the function can put the engine on standby system if you set the automatic gearbox to P When the vehicle in front sets off again or N if the stop does not exceed about you engage the reverse gear three seconds the vehicle sets off you unbuckle the driver s seatbelt automatically without any action by you open one of the opening ele the driver ments if the stop exceeds about three sec you press the engine start stop In all circumstances the standby is con onds you must apply the accelera button firmed when the warning lights appear tor pedal or press button RES in the slope is too steep in grey and the message Adaptive order for the vehicle to set off again. the vehicle speed is above mph Cruise Ctl Disconnected appears on The message Press RES or ac km h the instrument panel. celerate appears on the instrument certain driving aids and correction panel to confirm. devices are triggered active emer If the stop exceeds about three min gency braking ABS ESC etc. utes the electronic parking brake is when you press the clutch pedal for a automatically applied and the Stop prolonged period or upon prolonged Putting the adaptive cruise and Go adaptive cruise control is de neutral position on vehicles equipped control in standby or switch activated. The warning light disap with a manual gearbox. ing it off does not cause a pears to confirm that the function is de rapid reduction in speed activated. you must brake by applying the brake pedal if necessary ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL Exit from standby Depending on the situation the system sounds a beep associated with Based on the stored cruising speed the orange alert E if the situation re If a speed is stored it can be recalled quires the driver s attention E once you are sure that the road con or ditions are suitable traffic road sur face weather conditions etc Press the red alert F accompanied by the switch RES in the range of con message Brake if the situation re firmed speeds. quires the driver s immediate atten When the stored speed is recalled acti tion. vation of the cruise control is confirmed In all situations react accordingly by the illumination of the cruising speed F and perform the appropriate ma in green. noeuvres. Note if the stored speed is higher than the current speed the vehicle will ac celerate to reach that speed. Take control of the vehicle warnings Based on the current speed When the cruise control is set to In some situations e.g. coming upon standby pressing switch SET re a much slower vehicle vehicle in activates the cruise control function front changing lanes quickly etc. the without taking into account the stored system may not have time to react. speed it is the speed at which the vehi cle is moving that is taken into account ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL If the radar detection area is obstructed Operating faults or the radar signal is disrupted the If an adaptive cruise control function message Front radar no visibility is operating fault is detected the mes displayed on the instrument panel and sage Check Adaptive Cruise control the adaptive cruise control is inter appears on the instrument panel and rupted. The green warning light the adaptive cruise control function is disappears to confirm that the function deactivated. has been automatically deactivated. Ensure that the radar area is not ob If an operating fault is detected on one structed dirt mud snow a badly or more components of the system the fitted attached front number plate im adaptive cruise control function is inter pacted modified including paintwork rupted. or hidden by any accessory fitted on the The warning light appears on front of the vehicle on the grille or logo the instrument panel along with de etc pending on the malfunction one of the Conditions in certain geographical following messages Switching off the function areas may hinder the function for ex Check Front camera The adaptive cruise control function ample is deactivated when you press the arid zones tunnels long bridges or Front radar to check switch. lightly used roads without road lines Check Camera Radar without signs or trees nearby The warning light disappears from Check vehicle. the instrument panel to confirm that the a military or airport zone. Consult an approved dealer. function is no longer active. You must leave such areas in order for the function to work. Temporary unavailability In all cases if the message is not erased after the engine is restarted The radar is able to detect vehicles please contact an authorised dealer. in front of your vehicle. The system cannot operate correctly if the radar de tection area is obscured or if its signal is disrupted ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL G H J Limitations of system The system cannot detect Detection during cornering operation vehicles arriving at intersections slip When entering a corner or bend the roads e.g. H radar and or camera may temporarily Vehicle detection not be able to detect the vehicle in front vehicles driving on the wrong side of The system detects only vehicles cars the road or reversing towards you. e.g. J. trucks motorbikes that are moving in The system may trigger an accelera the same direction as your vehicle. tion. A vehicle turning into the same lane When exiting a bend the system s de e.g. G will be taken into account by tection of the vehicle in front may be the system only once it enters the disrupted or delayed. camera and radar detection areas. The system may trigger abrupt or The system may trigger abrupt or delayed braking. delayed braking. The adaptive cruise control must only be used on a motorway or multi lane road separated by a bar rier ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL K L M Detection of vehicles in adjacent Vehicles hidden due to variations in vehicles transporting long objects lanes ground relief which exceed the line The system may detect vehicles driving The system will not detect vehicles the actual length of tall vehicles on an adjacent lane when hidden due to variations in ground relief e.g. L outside the radar detection or those located outside of the camera area construction machine agricul you drive into a bend e.g. K and radar detection areas when driving tural equipment towing vehicle etc. you are driving on a road with narrow uphill or downhill. vehicles insufficiently centred in the lanes lane Vehicles outside the camera and the speed of the vehicle on the ad radar detection areas. narrow vehicles which are very close jacent lane is slower and if one of e.g. M. these vehicles is located too close to The system will react late or not at all the lane of the other. if the detected vehicles are outside the camera and radar detection areas par The system may incorrectly trigger ticularly in the following cases vehicle slowing or braking ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL N P Q Stationary and slow moving vehicles in front which change Non detection of fixed obstacles vehicles lane revealing a stationary vehi and objects of a small size cle e.g. P. When your speed is over approximately The system cannot detect mph km h the system does pedestrians bikes scooters etc. not detect animals stationary vehicles e.g N fixed obstacles toll barriers walls very slow moving vehicles. etc. e.g. Q. When your speed is less than approxi These are not taken into account by the mately mph km h the system Always be ready to take control system. They do not trigger any alert or may not react or may react very late of your vehicle when you come reaction by the system. to upon stationary or very slow stationary vehicles e.g N moving vehicles e.g. N. very slow moving vehicles The adaptive cruise control does not trigger an emergency stop and its braking capability is limited ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL This function is an additional driving aid. It can under no circumstances replace the driver s responsibility to respect speed limits and safe distances and to be vigilant. The driver must always be in control of the vehicle. The driver must always adapt their speed to the surroundings and driving conditions regardless of system indications. Except for lines delimiting lanes traffic indicators traffic lights signs pedestrian crossings etc. are not recognised by the system. These do not trigger any alert or reaction by the system. The system should under no circumstances be taken to be an obstacle detector or an anti collision system. The adaptive cruise control must only be used on a motorway or multi lane road separated by a barrier. System servicing repairs In the event of an impact the radar and or camera alignment may be changed and its operation may consequently be af fected. Deactivate the system and consult an authorised dealer. Any work in the proximity of the radar and or camera replacements repairs windscreen modifications paintwork etc. must be carried out by a qualified professional. Only an authorised dealer is qualified to service the system. Deactivating the function You must disable the function if the vehicle is travelling on a windy road the vehicle is being towed breakdowns the vehicle is towing a trailer or a caravan the vehicle is being driven in a tunnel or close to a metallic structure the vehicle arrives at a toll point a roadwork area or on a narrow lane the vehicle is being driven up or down a very steep slope the visibility is poor glaring sun fog etc. the vehicle is being driven on a slippery road surface rain snow gravel etc. the weather conditions are poor rain snow side winds etc. the radar area has been damaged impacts etc. the camera area has been damaged e.g. on the inside or outside of the windscreen the windscreen is cracked or distorted. In the event of the system behaving abnormally deactivate it and consult an authorised dealer ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault ADAPTIVE CRUISE CONTROL In the event of system disturbance Some conditions can disturb or damage the operation of the system such as the windscreen or bumper is obscured in the area of the radar by dirt ice snow condensation number plate etc. a complex environment tunnel etc. poor weather conditions snow heavy rain hail black ice etc. poor visibility night fog etc. poor contrast between the vehicle preceding it and the surrounding area e.g. white vehicle in a snowy area etc. being dazzled glaring sun lights of vehicles travelling in the opposite direction etc. narrow winding or undulating road tight bends etc. a slower vehicle with a significant difference in speed use of mats not adapted to the vehicle. On the driver s side only use mats suitable for the vehicle attached with the pre fitted components and check the fitting regularly. Do not lay one mat on top of another. There is a risk of wedging the pedals. In these cases the system may wrongly intervene. Risk of unwanted braking or acceleration. Many unforeseen situations may affect the system operation. Certain objects or vehicles that can appear in the camera or radar detection zone may be interpreted by the system incorrectly possibly leading to inappropriate acceleration or braking. You should always be attentive to sudden events that might occur while you are driving. Always keep your vehicle under control by keeping your feet near the pedals so that you are ready to act in any event ENG UD R gulateur de vitesse adaptatif Stop and Go BFB KFB Renault PARKING DISTANCE CONTROL Operating principle Ultrasonic sensors in the rear bumper measure the distance between the ve hicle and an obstacle. This measurement is indicated by beeps which become more frequent the closer you come to the obstacle until they become a continuous beep when the vehicle is approximately to This function is an addi centimetres from the obstacle. tional aid that indicates the The system detects obstacles to the distance between the vehi front the rear and the sides of the ve cle and an obstacle whilst hicle. reversing using sound signals. The parking distance control system Under no circumstances should it is only activated when the vehicle is Special features replace the driver s care or respon driven at a speed below approximately sibility whilst reversing. mph km h. Ensure that the ultrasonic sensors indi cated by the arrows are not obscured The driver should always be ready The parking distance control system by dirt mud snow a badly fitted at for sudden incidents while driv does not take into account towing and tached number plate impacted modi ing always ensure that there are load carrying systems etc. fied including paintwork or obstructed no small narrow moving obstacles by any accessory fitted to the front or such as a child animal pushchair rear of your vehicle. bicycle stone post etc. in the blind spot when manoeuvring ENG UD Aide au parking BFB KFB Renault Parking distance control parking distance control up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU reversing sensor up to the end of the DU assisted parking up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU parking assistance assisted parking up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU PARKING DISTANCE CONTROL C A B Note the display shows the vehicle Operation surroundings and emits beeps. Most objects located less near the It is necessary to travel a few metres front rear and sides of the vehicle are before the side detection is activated. detected. If all areas have a grey background the An impact to the under Depending on the distance of the ob whole area around the vehicle is being side of the vehicle while stacle the frequency of the beep will monitored manoeuvring e.g. strik increase when approaching it and will A analysis of the vehicle surround ing a post raised kerb or become a solid beep at approximately ings in progress other street furniture may result in cm from obstacles to the sides and damage to the vehicle e.g. defor cm from obstacles to the front or B analysis of the vehicle surround mation of an axle. rear. Green orange and red zones will ings carried out. To avoid any risk of accident have be displayed on the display C. your vehicle checked by an ap proved Dealer ENG UD Aide au parking BFB KFB Renault PARKING DISTANCE CONTROL If a side obstacle is detected D the beeps become faster and then sound continuously as the obstacle gets nearer. Green orange and red zones will be displayed on the dis play D if there is no risk of collision no beep will sound when approaching the ob stacle. Green orange and red zones will be displayed interspersed on the display D. Note in the event of a change in tra jectory during a manoeuvre the risk of collision with an obstacles may be sig nalled late. Detection of obstacles to the side Depending on the direction of the wheels the system determines the tra jectory of the vehicle and notifies the driver of any risk or otherwise of a col An impact to the under lision with an obstacle to the side of side of the vehicle while the vehicle. manoeuvring e.g. strik ing a post raised kerb or other street furniture may result in damage to the vehicle e.g. defor mation of an axle. To avoid any risk of accident have your vehicle checked by an ap proved Dealer ENG UD Aide au parking BFB KFB Renault PARKING DISTANCE CONTROL Vehicles not fitted with a multimedia screen With the vehicle stopped press the switch to deactivate parking distance control. Warning light in the switch lights up. Press again on the switch to activate the function. The indicator light built into the switch goes out. Adjustment Vehicles fitted with a multimedia screen Depending on the vehicle with the engine running some settings can be Activation deactivation adjusted from the multimedia screen. Deactivating the system sound Activate or deactivate the parking dis Please refer to the multimedia instruc Vehicles fitted with a multimedia tance control sound. tions for further information. screen Note if you deactivate the sound you To activate or deactivate the various Parking distance control audio will no longer be notified with beeps zones covered by the ultrasonic detec volume when approaching an obstacle. tors please refer to the multimedia in Adjust the volume of Park Assist by structions. pressing or. Select ON or OFF. System sound Enables the system sound to be chosen. When the vehicle is being driven at a speed below approximately mph km h certain noises motorcy cle lorry pneumatic drill etc. may trigger the beeping sound of the parking distance control ENG UD Aide au parking BFB KFB Renault screens multimedia screen up to the end of the DU PARKING DISTANCE CONTROL select BIP VOLUME to adjust the Operating faults volume of the parking distance con When the system detects an operating trol using the or control. fault a beep sounds for approximately seconds each time reverse gear is se Deactivating the parking lected and is accompanied by the mes distance control manually sage Check parking sensor shown on the instrument panel. Please consult an If towing carrying or trailer equipment is authorised dealer. present in front of the ultrasonic detec tors you must deactivate the system. Automatic deactivation of the parking distance control The system deactivates Vehicles not fitted with a multimedia when the vehicle speed is above ap screen proximately mph km h With the vehicle stopped press the depending on the model when the switch as many times as required to vehicle is stationary for more than reach the Vehicle tab approximately seconds and an ob An impact to the under stacle is detected such as when in a press the or control repeatedly to side of the vehicle while traffic jam etc. reach the Settings menu. Press the manoeuvring e.g. strik switch OK when the vehicle is in neutral for ing a post raised kerb or manual gearboxes or in position N other street furniture may result in press the or control repeatedly or P for automatic gearboxes. damage to the vehicle e.g. defor to reach the PARKING ASSIST mation of an axle. menu. Press the switch OK To avoid any risk of accident have your vehicle checked by an ap proved dealer ENG UD Aide au parking BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page REVERSING CAMERA The rear view camera is located on Special feature the luggage compartment lid. Make sure that the camera is not ob scured by dirt mud snow condensa tion etc This function is an additional aid. It cannot therefore under any circum stances replace the vigilance or the responsibility of the driver. The driver should always be ready for sudden incidents while driving always ensure that there are no small narrow moving obstacles such as a child animal pushchair bicycle stone post etc. in the blind spot when ma noeuvring ENG UD Cam ra de recul BFB KFB Renault Reversing camera rear view camera up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU parking distance control up to the end of the DU assisted parking up to the end of the DU parking assistance assisted parking up to the end of the DU REVERSING CAMERA moving guide line This is shown in blue on the multime dia screen. It indicates the vehicle tra jectory according to the position of the steering wheel. C B Activating deactivating the reversing camera A To activate or deactivate the function via the multimedia screen refer to the multimedia instructions. Activate or deactivate the reversing camera and confirm your choice. You can also adjust the camera image Operation Fixed clearance gauge settings brightness contrast etc. When reversing the camera transmits The fixed clearance gauge comprises a view of the surroundings to the rear coloured markers A B and C indicat of the vehicle to the screen accompa ing the distance behind the vehicle nied by one or two clearance gauges A red approximately centime et mobile and fixed. This system tres from the vehicle is initially used with the aid of several B yellow approximately centime gauges mobile for trajectory and fixed tres from the vehicle The screen shows a reverse mirror for distance. When the red zone is C green approximately centi image. reached use the bumper image to stop metres from the vehicle. Objects which appear on the edge accurately. This gauge remains fixed and indicates of the screen may be deformed. the vehicle trajectory if the wheels are In very bright light snow vehicle in in line with the vehicle. sunshine etc. the camera vision may be adversely affected. If the boot is open or poorly closed the message Boot open appears The frames are a representation projected onto flat ground this information must and the camera display disappears. not be taken into account when superimposed on a vertical object or an object on the ground ENG UD Cam ra de recul BFB KFB Renault PARKING EXIT WARNING A B B B B Using information from the radars in Special feature stalled on each side of the rear bumper Make sure that the radar area A is not area A the system notifies the driver obscured by stickers mud snow etc when another vehicle appears in the The system s detection capability detection zone B. depends on the vehicle s surround If a radar is obscured the message ings static objects etc. the condi Side radars no visibility will appear on The function is activated if tion of the bumper etc. the instrument panel. Clean the area reverse gear is engaged where the sensors are located. and This function is an addi the vehicle is stationary or driving at tional driving aid. This func a low speed. tion is not under any cir cumstances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle ENG UD Avertisseur de sortie de stationnement BFB KFB Renault Parking exit warning driving aids up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU warning assisted parking up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU vehicle detection up to the end of the DU reverse gear selecting up to the end of the DU reversing sensor up to the end of the DU PARKING EXIT WARNING Activation deactivation from Operation The indicators on the multimedia the multimedia screen The function warns you if a vehicle is in screen show you on which side the ap proaching vehicle has been detected. To activate or deactivate the function area B and is approaching your vehicle. refer to the multimedia instructions. The indicator is displayed on the door Note clean the camera regularly so that it is not obscured. Select ON or OFF. mirrors on both sides. Indicators and are accompanied by Note clean the rear view mirrors reg an audible signal when your vehicle is ularly so that the indicators can be reversing. seen ENG UD Avertisseur de sortie de stationnement BFB KFB Renault screens multimedia screen current page PARKING EXIT WARNING Operating faults If the system detects a fault the mes sage Side radars to check is displayed on the instrument panel. Consult an ap proved dealer. Limitation of the system operation The radar area should be kept clean and free of any modifications in order to ensure the proper operation of the system. Small objects motorcycles bicycles pedestrians etc. moving towards to the vehicle may not be recognised by the system. Deactivating the function You must disable the function if Due to the presence of sensors behind the bumper it is advisable to the radar area A has been damaged rear bumper entrust any operation on the bumper the vehicle is fitted with a towbar that is not recognised by the system. repair replacement paintwork etc. to a qualified professional ENG UD Avertisseur de sortie de stationnement BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page PARKING EXIT WARNING This function is an additional driving aid. This function is not under any circumstances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle. The system should under no circumstances be taken to be an obstacle detector or an anti collision system. System servicing repairs In the event of a impact the position of the radars may be changed affecting the function. Deactivate the function and con sult an authorised dealer. Any work in the area where the radars are located repair replacement bodywork etc. must be carried out by a qualified professional. Only an authorised dealer is qualified to service the system. Deactivating the function You must disable the function if the radar area A has been damaged rear bumper the vehicle is fitted with a towbar that is not recognised by the system. System disturbance Some conditions can disturb or damage the operation of the system such as a complex environment underground car park steel structures etc. poor weather conditions snow heavy rain hail black ice etc Limitation of the system operation The radar area should be kept clean and free of any modifications in order to ensure the proper operation of the system. Small objects motorcycles bicycles pedestrians etc. moving towards to the vehicle may not be recognised by the system. Risk of false alarms or absence of warnings In the event of the system behaving abnormally deactivate it and consult an authorised dealer ENG UD Avertisseur de sortie de stationnement BFB KFB Renault ASSISTED PARKING A Using ultrasonic detectors as indicated Switching on Special features by the arrows installed in the vehicle With the vehicle stationary or driving Ensure that the ultrasonic sensors indi bumpers this function helps to find ac at less than approximately mph cated by the arrows are not obscured cessible parking spaces and assists in km h by dirt mud snow a badly fitted at the parking manoeuvre. tached number plate impacted modi press switch. The indicator light in Remove your hands from the steering fied including paintwork or obstructed switch lights up and display A ap wheel you only control by any accessory fitted to the front or pears on the multimedia screen the accelerator pedal rear of your vehicle. set the direction indicators to the the brake pedal side of the vehicle where you want to the gear lever. park. At any time you can regain control by using the steering wheel ENG UD Stationnement assist KFB BFB Renault Assisted parking parking assistance assisted parking up to the end of the DU assisted parking up to the end of the DU parking distance control up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU ASSISTED PARKING Note when starting the vehicle or after Operation having successfully completed parallel parking using the system the default Parking manoeuvre proposed by the system is As long as the vehicle speed is less assistance in exiting a parallel parking than mph km h the system space. In other cases the default ma searches for available parking spaces noeuvre can be set from the multimedia on the side of the vehicle chosen by the screen. Please refer to the multime driver. dia instructions for further information. Note if parking spaces are available on the other side of the vehicle set the direction indicators to the other direc tion to enable the system to search for spaces. Once a space has been found it is dis played on the multimedia screen indi Choice of manoeuvre cated by a small letter P. Drive slowly with the direction indicators activated The system can perform four types of on the side where the space is avail manoeuvres able until the Stop message is dis parallel parking played and a beep sounds. perpendicular parking angle parking moving out of a parallel parking space. From the multimedia screen select the manoeuvre to carry out. The system start up is accompa nied by activation of the parking dis tance control and on those vehicles equipped the reversing camera to help the driver visualise the ma noeuvre ENG UD Stationnement assist KFB BFB Renault ASSISTED PARKING The space is then indicated on the mul Release the steering wheel timedia screen by a capital letter P. carry out manoeuvres at the front Stop the vehicle and rear by following the instructions shown on the multimedia screen select reverse gear. and using the parking distance con trol system alerts. The indicator light lights up on the instrument panel and a beep Your speed should not exceed around sounds. mph km h. Release the steering wheel Once the vehicle is in a position to exit follow the instructions shown on the the parking space the warning multifunction screen. light disappears from the instrument Your speed should not exceed around panel and a sound signal and message mph km h. appear on the multimedia screen to confirm that the manoeuvre is com Once the warning light on the Exiting a parallel parking space plete. instrument panel goes off and a beep Briefly press the switch sounds the manoeuvre has been com Select the Exit parallel parking pleted. space mode activate the direction indicators on the side you wish to go out of press and hold switch approx. two seconds. This function is an addi The indicator light lights up tional driving aid. on the instrument panel and a beep Therefore it can under no sounds. When manoeuvring the circumstances replace the steering wheel may turn driver s vigilance and responsibility quickly do not put your during manoeuvres the driver must hands inside and make always be ready to brake. sure that nothing is caught inside ENG UD Stationnement assist KFB BFB Renault ASSISTED PARKING The switch warning light goes out Cancelling the manoeuvre the warning light disappears The manoeuvre is cancelled in the fol from the instrument panel and an au lowing cases dible signal confirms that the manoeu the vehicle speed has exceeded vre has been suspended. The reason mph km h for suspending the manoeuvre will be by pressing switch displayed on the multimedia screen. you have performed more than ten Make sure forwards backwards movements in you have released the steering one manoeuvre wheel the parking distance control sensors and are dirty or blocked that all doors and the boot are closed the vehicle wheels have skidded and the manoeuvre has been suspended that no obstacles are in the way of Suspending Resuming the the direction of movement for too long. manoeuvre and T he switch warning light and the The manoeuvre is suspended in the fol that the engine is started. warning light disappear from the lowing circumstances If the warning light on the switch instrument panel and a sound signal you take control of the wheel flashes this indicates that the system confirms that the manoeuvre has been is once again available to resume the cancelled. The reason for cancelling the vehicle is stationary for too long manoeuvre. the manoeuvre will be displayed on the an obstacle in the direction of move multimedia screen. To resume the manoeuvre press and ment prevents the manoeuvre from hold the switch. T he switch warning being completed the engine stops light appears and warning light is displayed on the instrument panel. a door or the luggage compartment is opened. Follow the instructions shown on the multimedia screen ENG UD Stationnement assist KFB BFB Renault ASSISTED PARKING This function is an additional driving aid. This function is not under any circumstances intended to replace the due care and attention of the driver who should at all times be in control of the vehicle. Make sure that the manoeuvre complies with the applicable traffic regulations in your location. The driver should always be ready for sudden incidents while driving always ensure that there are no small narrow moving obstacles such as a child animal pushchair bicycle stone post towing equipment etc. in the blind spot when manoeuvring. System servicing repairs In the event of an impact the alignment of the sensors may be changed and their operation may consequently be affected. Deactivate the function and consult an authorised dealer. Any work in the area where the sensors are located repairs replacements exterior trim modifications etc. must be carried out by a qualified professional. Only an authorised dealer is qualified to service the system. In the event of system disturbance Certain conditions may disrupt or impair operation of the system such as poor weather conditions snow hail ice etc In the event of the system behaving abnormally deactivate it and consult an authorised dealer. Risk of erroneous false alarms. Limitations of the system operation The system cannot detect objects located in the sensor blind spots. Always visually check that the parking space proposed by the system is still available and contains no obstacles. The system should not be used when towing a trailer or when there is a towing or load carrying system on the vehicle or on surrounding vehicles ENG UD Stationnement assist KFB BFB Renault AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION B A Selector lever Operation P park With the selection lever in position P switch on the ignition. R reverse To move out of position P you must de N Neutral press the brake pedal before pressing D automatic mode the unlocking button. M manual mode With you r foot on the brake pedal warn upper gear ing light on the display goes out lower gear move the lever out of position P. The gear engaged is displayed on the Only engage D or R when the vehi instrument panel B and depending on cle is stopped with your foot on the the vehicle on the display A. brake and the accelerator pedal re leased. Note Press button to go from posi tion D or N to R or P ENG UD Bo te de vitesse automatique BFB KFB Renault Automatic gearbox automatic gearbox use up to the end of the DU changing gear up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU automatic gearbox selector lever up to the end of the DU reverse gear selecting up to the end of the DU operation up to the end of the DU gear lever up to the end of the DU AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION Driving in automatic mode Driving in manual mode Special circumstances With the selector lever in position D Put lever into position D. If the bends and road surface do move the lever to the left into the M po not allow you to stay in automatic In most road conditions you will en sition. Shifting the lever or the paddles mode e.g. in the mountains we counter you will not need to touch your repeatedly allows you to change gears recommend that you change to lever again the gears will change au manually manual mode. This will prevent the tomatically at the right time and at the to move down through the gears automatic gearbox from changing most suitable engine speed because push the lever forwards gear repeatedly when climbing and the automatic system takes into ac to move up through the gears push permit engine braking on long de count the vehicle load and road contour the lever backwards. scents. and adjusts itself to the particular driv The gear selected is displayed on the ing style you have chosen. instrument panel. Economical driving Special cases When driving always leave the lever In certain driving conditions for exam in position D keeping the accelerator ple engine protection operation of the pedal lightly depressed to ensure auto Electronic Stability Programme the au matic gear changes at a lower engine tomatic system may change gear auto speed. matically. Likewise to prevent incorrect manoeuvres a gear change may be re Accelerating and overtaking fused by the automatic system in this Depress the accelerator pedal firmly case the gear display flashes for a few and fully so that it goes beyond the seconds as a warning. kickdown point. This will enable you to change down to the optimum gear within the engine range. When facing uphill to remain stopped do not keep your foot on the accelerator. Risk of overheating the automatic gearbox ENG UD Bo te de vitesse automatique BFB KFB Renault AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION Parking the vehicle Maintenance period When the vehicle is stopped move the Refer to the maintenance document lever to position P while keeping your for your vehicle or consult an Approved foot on the brake pedal the gearbox is Dealer to check whether the automatic in neutral and the drive wheels are me gearbox requires scheduled mainte chanically locked by the driveshaft. nance. Apply the handbrake or depending If it does not need to be serviced there on the vehicle ensure that the elec is no need to top up the oil. tronic parking brake is applied. Operating faults During driving if the WARNING Check Gearbox message appears on the instrument panel it indicates that there is a fault. Contact your ap proved Dealer as soon as possible An impact to the under when driving if the message When activated in the event that the side of the vehicle while WARNING Gearbox Overheating lever is stuck in P depress the brake manoeuvring e.g. strik appears on the instrument panel paddle. It is possible to free the lever ing a post raised kerb or stop as soon as possible to let the manually. To do this unclip the base of other street furniture may result in gearbox cool down and wait for the the lever then insert a tool rigid rod damage to the vehicle e.g. defor message to disappear into the slot and press simultaneously mation of an axle. Troubleshooting on a vehicle with on the button in order to unlick the an automatic gearbox lever. To avoid any risk of accident have your vehicle checked by an ap Contact an approved dealer as soon as proved Dealer. possible. For safety reasons do not switch off the ignition before the vehicle has come to a complete standstill ENG UD Bo te de vitesse automatique BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page EMERGENCY CALL If the vehicle is equipped with it the emergency call system enables auto matic or manual calling of the emer gency services in the event of an ac cident or illness in order to reduce the emergency response time. If you use the emergency call function to report an accident which you have witnessed this implies stopping where traffic conditions allow in order for the emergency services to locate your ve hicle and therefore the location of the reported accident. In all cases comply with local legisla tion. System operation warning light A call is always made as follows green operational the call is set up with the emergency network available services off non operational network unavailable send data related to the incident ve Use the emergency call only in the red operating hicle identification plate local time event of an emergency you are in fault of the call last positions direction of volved in if you witness an accident green flashing call in progress. the vehicle or if you feel ill. Automatic mode warning light voice communication with the emer SOS button gency services Microphone In the event of an acci if necessary emergency assistance Speaker. dent if the location and traf is called. fic conditions permit stay Emergency call has two modes close to the vehicle in order to be able answer the call centre automatic mode quickly if necessary. Manual mode ENG UD Appel d urgence BFB KFB Renault Emergency call emergency call up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU EMERGENCY CALL Automatic mode In the event of unintended operation it is possible to cancel the call by press If the automatic mode warning light ing the button for around two sec appears in green this confirms that the onds before the call is connected to automatic system is activated. the call centre. The emergency call starts automati Once a call is established only the call cally in the event of an accident that centre can end the call. has required the activation of the pro tective equipment seat belt pretension Test mode ers airbag etc depending on local laws Test mode is reserved exclusively for Approved Dealers to check that the emergency call feature is working prop erly. To activate test mode Manual mode briefly press the button three times The emergency call is carried out by wait approximately seconds pressing and holding the button for briefly press the button three times. at least three seconds Exit from test mode is automatic. or pressing the button five times within ten seconds ENG UD Appel d urgence BFB KFB Renault EMERGENCY CALL The system operates with a dedi cated battery. The battery serv ice life is approximately four years the warning light lights up in red Without the emergency call feature to warn you when approaching the system is not trackable and will expiry. not be under constant surveillance. Consult an approved dealer Data is automatically and constantly erased and the system stores only the last three positions of the vehi cle. To guarantee your safety and the proper operation of According to local legislation data the system any operation is only sent in the event of an emer carried out on the battery gency call. Data sent to the call Operating faults removal disconnection etc. must centre is treated according to the In some cases the emergency call may be carried out by a qualified special personal data protection laws appli not work e.g. low battery. ist. cable in the country where you are located. The system stores activity If the system detects an operating fault Risk of serious burns or electric history data for hours only. the warning light illuminates in red for shocks. more than minutes. Contact your ap You must respect the replacement The vehicle owner has the right of proved Dealer as soon as possible intervals without exceeding them access to their data. They can re quest that the data be corrected as stated in the maintenance docu deleted or locked. ment. The battery is a specific type. Please ensure it is replaced with the same type. Call an approved Dealer ENG UD Appel d urgence BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page Section Your comfort Multi Sense Air Vents Manual air conditioning heating system Automatic climate control Air conditioning information and advice on use Outside air quality and deodorisation functions Multimedia equipment Electric windows Electric sunroof Interior lighting Sun visor blinds Passenger compartment storage fittings Accessories socket Ashtray Cigarette lighter Rear headrests Rear bench seat Luggage compartment Rear parcel shelf Luggage cover Luggage net Luggage compartment storage space fittings Transporting objects in the luggage compartment Transporting objects towbar Roof bars ENG UD Sommaire BFB KFB Renault MULTI SENSE The MULTI SENSE system enables Mode Eco you to choose between four driving Eco mode focuses on energy saving. modes that can be used to control The steering is smooth engine and driving ambient lighting comfort and gearbox management enable fuel con engine sound depending on the vehi sumption to be reduced cle the Eco Sport and Comfort modes My Sense mode are preconfigured and can be par tially customised ambient lighting Using standard default vehicle settings etc. this mode can be used to manually con the My Sense mode is customisable. figure driving ambient lighting comfort and engine sound depending on the The drive modes affect the vehicle. power assisted steering Electronic Stability Program the response of the engine and gear Mode Comfort box. This mode favours smooth steering. The interior environment is softened. Accessing the menu They also affect the the lighting in the passenger com Depending on the vehicle the driver s You can access MULTI SENSE de partment and of the instrument seat massage function is activated. pending on the vehicle panel from the multimedia screen the information on the instrument using the switch. panel and multimedia screen Please refer to the multimedia instruc depending on the vehicle the engine tions for further information. sound. Sport mode Any mode allows you to change the This mode enables an increased re colour of the ambient lighting as well Engine settings are specific to each sponsiveness from the engine and the as the format of the information dis of the driving modes and cannot be gearbox. The steering is firmer. played in My Sense mode on the customised. instrument panel and multimedia screen. You can also reset to the default set After the engine is switched off the tings. vehicle will always restart in My Sense mode ENG UD Multi Sense BFB KFB Renault Multi Sense Multi Sense up to the end of the DU driving up to the end of the DU driving aids up to the end of the DU driver assistance up to the end of the DU screens multimedia screen up to the end of the DU AIR VENTS air outlets side window demister outlets side air vents windscreen demister outlet centre air vents footwell heater outlets for front pas footwell heater outlets for rear pas sengers sengers multimedia screen centre console air vents. ENG UD A rateurs sorties d air BFB KFB Renault Air Vents air vents up to the end of the DU ventilation ventilation up to the end of the DU air conditioning up to the end of the DU ventilation up to the end of the DU AIR VENTS air outlets Front seats Air flow Rear seats Turn control knob Direction Right left direction to maximum air flow Move cursor. Right left direction Move cursor. to closed. Up down direction To remove bad odours from your ve Move cursor. Up down direction hicles only use the systems designed Move cursor. for this purpose. Consult an approved Air flow Dealer. Turn control knob up maximum flow Do not add anything to the vehicle s ventilation circuit down closed. for example to remove bad odours. There is a risk of damage or of fire ENG UD A rateurs sorties d air BFB KFB Renault MANUAL AIR CONDITIONING A The controls Indicators Switching air conditioning on or off Adjustment of air temperature Clear The following indicators are displayed View function on the multimedia screen A The air conditioning is switched on in De icing demisting of the rear screen Air temperature. dicator light on or off indicator light off and depending on the vehicle the using the control. Active mode. rear view mirrors. Fan speed. The air conditioning system is used Air conditioning. for Distribution of air in the passenger Air recirculation. compartment. lowering the temperature inside the Adjusting air distribution in the pas passenger compartment senger compartment. eliminating condensation more Increase the fan speed. quickly. Reduce the fan speed until the system switches off ENG UD Air conditionn manuel BFB KFB Renault Manual air conditioning heating system air conditioning up to the end of the DU heating system up to the end of the DU air conditioning up to the end of the DU ventilation up to the end of the DU heating and air conditioning system up to the end of the DU demisting windscreen up to the end of the DU demisting rear screen up to the end of the DU MANUAL AIR CONDITIONING Distribution of air in the passenger compartment There are five air distribution options. Turn control to choose the distribution option. The air distribution is displayed on the multimedia screen. The air flow is directed to the windscreen and the front side window demisting vents. The air flow is distributed be tween all the air vents the front side window demisting vents the windscreen demisting vents and the footwells. Adjusting the air temperature Rear screen de icing The air flow is directed mainly Turn control to obtain the desired demisting G towards the footwells. temperature. The more bars are dis With the engine running press the The air flow is directed towards played on the multimedia screen the control. The operating tell tale comes the dashboard air vents the higher the temperature. on. front footwells and depending on the When the air conditioning system is This function permits rapid demisting v Jehicle the second row footwells. used for long periods it may begin to de icing of the rear screen and de icing All the air flow is directed to the feel cold. To increase the temperature of the door mirrors on equipped vehi dashboard vents. turn control to the right. cles. To exit this function press the con trol again. Demisting automatically stops ENG UD Air conditionn manuel BFB KFB Renault MANUAL AIR CONDITIONING Varying the ventilation speed You can adjust the fan speed by press ing the controls or to increase or reduce the fan speed. The system is deactivated OFF the ventilation speed is zero vehicle sta tionary. You may however feel a slight flow of air when the vehicle is moving. Stopping the system To switch off the system press control several times until OFF appears on the multimedia screen. You may however feel a slight flow of air when the vehicle is moving. Clear View function Switching the air Press the control the integrated indi recirculation on cator light in the button comes on. Press the control the integrated in This function quickly demists and de dicator light in the button comes on. ices the windscreen the rear screen Under these conditions air is taken the front side windows and the door from the passenger compartment and mirrors depending on the vehicle. The is recirculated with no air being taken air conditioning and rear screen de ic from outside the vehicle. Air recircula ing functions must be activated. tion operates as follows isolating the vehicle from the exter nal atmosphere driving in polluted areas etc. lowering the passenger compart ment temperature as quickly as pos sible. Prolonged use of air recirculation can lead to condensation forming on the side windows and windscreen and discomfort due to the use of non renewed air in the passenger compartment. We therefore advise you to return to normal mode external air as soon as the air recirculation function is no longer required by pressing the control again ENG UD Air conditionn manuel BFB KFB Renault AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control A A Soft Normal Fast OFF AUTO Manuel The controls A Short cut to the air conditioning page. To access the automatic climate control SYNC Synchronisation function. settings from the multimedia screen De icing demisting of the rear refer to the multimedia instructions. screen and depending on the vehi The presence of the controls detailed cle the rear view mirrors below will depend on the vehicle model. Clear View function. Left and right programmed temper Air conditioning. ature adjustment. Additional air conditioning mode Air recirculation. OFF Reduce the fan speed until the Fan speed display. system switches off. and Passenger compartment Increase the fan speed. air distribution. and automatic modes Additional air conditioning mode Auto Additional Air Conditioning Manual Mode Some buttons have a warning light indicating their operative state ENG UD Climatisation automatique commandes A KFB BFB Renault Automatic climate control air conditioning up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU heated windscreen heating system up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU de icing de misting temperature regulation windscreen up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU ventilation screens up to the end of the DU multimedia screen air conditioning up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU heating and air conditioning system up to the end of the DU demisting rear screen up to the end of the DU de icing rear screen up to the end of the DU demisting windscreen up to the end of the DU windscreen AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control A To deactivate the function press the button again or use the control and adjust the right hand side separately Soft Normal Fast from the left hand side. The button warning light switches off. Note the air conditioning configuration depends on the mode selected in the Multi Sense menu OFF AUTO Manuel Varying the ventilation speed Temperature adjustment The displayed temperature values show a comfort level. In automatic mode the system uses There are two types of settings the most suitable amount of air to reach independent adjustment of the pas When starting the engine increas and maintain the desired comfort level. senger compartment ing or decreasing the value dis adjustment in SYNC mode to syn played will not allow the com You can still adjust the fan speed by chronise the passenger s side and fort level to be reached any more pressing switch or. the driver s side. quickly. The system will always op Note the configuration of the air condi timise the temperature increase or tioning depends on the mode selected SYNC function decrease the ventilation system in the MULTI SENSE menu Press the button to enable uniform does not start instantly at maximum setting of the passenger compartment. speed it gradually increases. This The button light will illuminate. Then may take several minutes. use control. Generally speaking unless there is a particular reason not to the dash board air vents should remain open ENG UD Climatisation automatique commandes A KFB BFB Renault AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control A Automatic mode The automatic climate control system guarantees comfort in the passen Soft Normal Fast ger compartment and good visibility except in the event of extreme condi tions while optimising consumption. The system controls the ventilation speed air distribution air recirculation and starting and stopping the air condi tioning and air temperature. This mode consists of a choice of three OFF AUTO Manuel programmes NORMAL allows the selected comfort level to be best attained depending on the exterior conditions. Press switch Clear View function Press button to switch off the heated or button. rear screen function. The built in indica This function quickly demists and de tor goes out. SOFT reaches the desired comfort ices the windscreen the rear screen level more gently and silently. Press the front side windows and the door To change the fan speed press button. mirrors depending on the vehicle. It switch or. imposes automatic operation of the To exit this function FAST increases the flow of air in the passenger compartment. This mode air conditioning and rear screen de ic ing and depending on the vehicle the press either is recommended in particular to opti mise comfort in the rear seats. Press windscreen electric de icer. switch button. Press switch. The built in indicator switch again light comes on. on button or ENG UD Climatisation automatique commandes A KFB BFB Renault rear screen de icing demisting current page windscreen de icing demisting current page AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control A Rear screen de icing demisting Soft Normal Fast Press switch. The built in indicator light comes on. This function enables rapid demisting or de icing of the rear screen and de icing of the rear view mirrors on equipped vehicles. To exit the function press switch again. Demisting automatically stops. OFF AUTO Manuel Switching air conditioning on Stopping the system or off Press switch repeatedly to stop the In automatic mode the system switches system. the air conditioning system on or off depending on the climate conditions. Press button to activate the air conditioning manu ally the indicator light in the con trol comes on It is preferable to use one of the automatic programmes NORMAL SOFT or FAST. deactivate the air conditioning man ually the indicator light in the con In automatic mode switch indicator light is lit all air conditioning functions are trol goes out controlled by the system. You can still change the system s choice in this case the switch indicator light goes out. To return to automatic mode press one of the programmes NORMAL SOFT or FAST or switch ENG UD Climatisation automatique commandes A KFB BFB Renault AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control A Manual use Press switch. The indicator light in the switch comes on. Soft Normal Fast Prolonged use of this position may lead to odours caused by non renewal of air and the formation of condensation on the windows. We therefore advise you to return to au tomatic mode as soon as air recircula tion is no longer needed by pressing switch. OFF AUTO Manuel To exit the function press switch again. Adjusting the distribution Air recirculation of air in the passenger This function is managed automatically compartment but you can also activate it manually. Press buttons and to select Note the distribution mode desired the air flow selected is displayed. during recirculation air is taken from the passenger compartment and The air flow is mainly directed to the is recycled with no air being taken demisting vents for the windscreen from outside the vehicle and the side windows. The air flow is mainly directed to the air recirculation allows the exter dashboard air vents. nal atmosphere to be cut off when The air flow is directed mainly to driving in polluted areas etc. and wards the footwells. to cool the passenger compartment temperature more quickly. The demisting de icing will still take priority over the air recirculation ENG UD Climatisation automatique commandes A KFB BFB Renault AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control B Air recirculation. Automatic mode FAST automatic mode. The automatic climate control system AUTO automatic mode. guarantees comfort in the passen ger compartment and good visibility SOFT automatic mode. except in the event of extreme condi D e icing demisting of the rear tions while optimising consumption. screen and depending on the ve The system controls the ventilation hicle the rear view mirrors. speed air distribution air recirculation and starting and stopping the air condi tioning and air temperature. This mode consists of a choice of three programmes AUTO allows the selected comfort level to be best attained depending on the exterior conditions. Press button. The controls SOFT reaches the desired comfort depending on the vehicle level more gently and silently. Press Adjusting the driver s side air tem button. perature. FAST increases the flow of air in the Air conditioning activation control. passenger compartment. This mode is recommended in particular to opti Clear View function. mise comfort in the rear seats. Press Adjusting the ventilation fan speed. button. Distribution of air in the passenger compartment. Outside air quality. SYNC Synchronisation function. Adjusting the passenger s side air temperature. Any action on a button other than the AUTO button triggers deactiva tion of automatic mode ENG UD Climatisation automatique Commande B BFB KFB Renault heating and air conditioning system up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU heated windscreen air conditioning up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU rear screen de icing demisting heating system up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU air conditioning up to the end of the DU temperature regulation up to the end of the DU ventilation up to the end of the DU de icing de misting windscreen up to the end of the DU de icing de misting rear window up to the end of the DU de icing de misting rear view mirrors up to the end of the DU windscreen AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control B Adjusting the ventilation Note the air conditioning configuration speed. depends on the mode selected in the Multi Sense menu In automatic mode the system uses the most suitable amount of air to reach and maintain the desired comfort level. You can still adjust the ventilation speed by turning control to increase or reduce the ventilation speed. Adjusting the air temperature Turn control or control according to the temperature required. Turning the control to the right in creases the temperature. SYNC function Press the button to enable uniform setting of the passenger compartment. The button light will illuminate. To deactivate the function press the button again or use the control and adjust the right hand side separately from the left hand side. The button warning light switches off ENG UD Climatisation automatique Commande B BFB KFB Renault AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control B W Clear View function All the air is then directed to the windscreen and front side Press the button the integrated indi window demisting vents. cator light comes on. The air flow is distributed be This function quickly demists and de tween front side window de ices the windscreen the rear screen misting vents the windscreen demist the front side windows and the door ing vents and the footwells. mirrors depending on the vehicle. The air conditioning and rear screen de ic The air flow is directed towards ing functions must be activated. the dashboard air vents the front footwells and depending on the Press button to stop the heated rear vehicle the second row footwells. screen operating and the integrated in dicator goes out. The air flow is mainly directed to the dashboard air vents. To exit this function press button or. The air flow is directed mainly towards the footwells. Adjusting the distribution of air in the passenger compartment Press the control as many times as necessary to select the passenger compartment air distribution mode. is displayed to indicate the distribution mode selected. Some buttons have an operating tell tale which indicates the operat ing status ENG UD Climatisation automatique Commande B BFB KFB Renault AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control B Switching air conditioning on or off In automatic mode the system switches the air conditioning system on or off depending on the climate conditions. Press the button to deactivate the air conditioning. The integrated indicator light goes off. Rear screen de icing demisting Press the button the integrated in dicator light comes on. This function enables rapid demisting or de icing of the rear screen and de icing of the rear view mirrors on equipped vehicles. To exit this function press button again. Demisting automatically stops. Vehicles equipped with ECO mode switch or depending on the vehicle from the multime dia screen when activated ECO Fuel consumption increases when mode may reduce the performance the air conditioning is being used of the automatic air conditioning. switch it off when it is not required ENG UD Climatisation automatique Commande B BFB KFB Renault ECO mode current page screens multimedia screen current page AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control B Manual use Press the button the integrated indi cator light comes on. Prolonged use of this position may lead to odours caused by non renewal of air and the formation of condensation on the windows. We therefore advise you to return to au tomatic mode as soon as air recircula tion is no longer needed by pressing button. Stopping the system Turn the control to OFF to stop the system. To start it turn the control Air recirculation isolation of again then adjust the fan speed or the passenger compartment press the button. This function is managed automatically but you can also activate it manually. In this case the operation is confirmed by a warning light on the button. The demisting de icing will still take priority over the air recirculation ENG UD Climatisation automatique Commande B BFB KFB Renault AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control C Clear View function. Automatic mode C and Ventilation speeds. The automatic climate control system SYNC Synchronisation function. guarantees comfort in the passen ger compartment and good visibility and Automatic modes. except in the event of extreme condi Air conditioning. tions while optimising consumption. The system controls the ventilation speed air distribution air recirculation Indicators and starting and stopping the air condi The following indicators are displayed tioning and air temperature. on the screen This mode consists of a choice of three Active mode ventilation speed and programmes air distribution in the passenger com AUTO allows the selected comfort partment temporary display after level to be best attained depending pressing the associated controls. on the exterior conditions. Press the C control Outside air temperature. button. and Left and right temperature in Air temperature left and right. SOFT reaches the desired comfort dication adjustment. level more gently and silently. Press the De icing demisting of the rear screen button. and depending on the vehicle the FAST increases the flow of air in the door mirrors. passenger compartment. This mode is Passenger compartment air distribu recommended in particular to optimise tion. comfort in the rear seats. Press the button. Automatic recirculation function. Air recirculation. Some buttons have a warning light indicating their operative state ENG UD Climatisation automatique commande C BFB KFB Renault air conditioning up to the end of the DU heating system up to the end of the DU temperature regulation up to the end of the DU ventilation up to the end of the DU air conditioning up to the end of the DU heated windscreen up to the end of the DU heating and air conditioning system up to the end of the DU windscreen up to the end of the DU windscreen de icing demisting up to the end of the DU rear screen de icing demisting up to the end of the DU AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control C Temperature adjustment To deactivate the function press the button again or use the control and There are two types of settings adjust the right hand side separately independent adjustment of the pas from the left hand side. senger compartment adjustment in SYNC mode to syn Note the air conditioning configuration chronise the passenger s and driv depends on the mode selected in the er s settings. Multi Sense menu Adjustment of the passenger com partment Use control. SYNC function Press the button to activate. The button warning light illuminates. Varying the ventilation speed To deactivate the function press the The displayed temperature values button again or use the control and show a comfort level. In automatic mode the system uses adjust the right hand side separately the most suitable amount of air to reach from the left hand side. When starting the engine increas and maintain the desired comfort level. The button warning light switches ing or decreasing the value dis played will not allow the com off. You will still be able to adjust the fan fort level to be reached any more speed by pressing buttons or. Note the air conditioning configuration quickly. The system will always op depends on the mode selected in the timise the temperature increase or Multi Sense menu decrease the ventilation system does not start instantly at maximum speed it gradually increases. This may take several minutes. Generally speaking unless there is a particular reason not to the dash board air vents should remain open ENG UD Climatisation automatique commande C BFB KFB Renault AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control C Press button the integrated indica tor light comes on. Press button to stop the heated rear screen operating and the integrated in dicator goes out. To change the fan speed press but tons or. To exit this function press either again button one of the buttons or. Clear View function This function quickly demists and de ices the windscreen the rear screen the front side windows and the door mirrors depending on the vehicle. It imposes automatic operation of the air conditioning and rear screen de ic ing and depending on the vehicle the windscreen electric de icer ENG UD Climatisation automatique commande C BFB KFB Renault AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control C Stopping the system Rear screen de icing demisting To switch the system off press button repeatedly until the message Press button the integrated indica OFF appears in zone. tor light comes on. This function en ables rapid demisting or de icing of the rear screen and de icing of the door mirrors on equipped vehicles. To exit this function press button again. Demisting automatically stops. Switching air conditioning on or off In automatic mode the system switches It is preferable to use one of the the air conditioning system on or off automatic programmes AUTO depending on the climate conditions. SOFT or FAST. Press button to In automatic mode indicator light activate the air conditioning the on button or lit all air con warning light in zone illuminates. ditioning functions are controlled by the system. deactivate the air conditioning the warning light in zone goes out. You can still modify the system s choice in this case the indicator light on the button or goes out. To return to automatic mode press one of programmes AUTO SOFT or FAST ENG UD Climatisation automatique commande C BFB KFB Renault AUTOMATIC CLIMATE CONTROL Control C Air recirculation Manual use This function is managed automatically Press button to force air recirculation. but you can also activate it manually. Prolonged use of this position may lead to odours caused by non renewal of Note air and the formation of condensation during recirculation air is taken from on the windows. the passenger compartment and We advise you to return to automatic is recycled with no air being taken mode as soon as air recirculation is no from outside the vehicle longer needed by pressing button or air recirculation allows the exter button again. nal atmosphere to be cut off when To exit this function press button or driving in polluted areas etc. and button again. to cool the passenger compartment temperature more quickly. Adjusting the distribution Automatic use of air in the passenger Press button a warning light comes compartment on in zone. Press buttons to select the desired distribution a warning light is displayed in zone W The air flow is mainly directed to the demisting vents for the windscreen and the side windows. The air flow is mainly directed to the dashboard air vents. The air flow is directed mainly towards the footwells. The demisting de icing will still take priority over the air recirculation ENG UD Climatisation automatique commande C BFB KFB Renault AIR CONDITIONING information and operating instructions Advice on use Fuel consumption Operating faults In some situations air conditioning off You will normally notice an increase in As a general rule contact your ap air recirculation activated ventilation fuel consumption especially in town proved dealer in the event of an oper speed at zero or low etc. you may when the air conditioning is operating. ating fault. notice that condensation starts to form For vehicles fitted with air conditioning Reduction in de icing demisting on the windows and windscreen. with no automatic mode switch off the or air conditioning performance. system when it is not required. If there is condensation use the Clear This may be caused by the passen View function to remove it then use ger compartment filter cartridge be Advice for reducing consumption the air conditioning in automatic mode coming clogged. and helping to preserve the to stop it forming again. environment No cold air is being produced. Check that the controls are set cor Drive with the air vents open and the rectly and that the fuses are sound. windows closed. If the vehicle has been Otherwise switch off the system. parked in the sun open the doors for a few moments to let the hot air escape before starting the engine. Presence of water under the vehicle Maintenance After prolonged use of the air condi Vehicles equipped with Refer to the Maintenance Document tioning system it is normal for water mode ECO for your vehicle for the inspection fre to be present under the vehicle. This is quency. caused by condensation. Once activated ECO mode may reduce air conditioning perform ance Do not add anything to the vehicle s ventilation circuit Do not open the refriger for example to remove Use the air conditioning system reg ant fluid circuit. The fluid bad odours. ularly even in cold weather running may damage eyes or skin. There is a risk of damage or of it at least once a month for approxi fire. mately minutes ENG UD Air conditionn informations et conseils utilisation BFB KFB Renault Air conditioning information and advice on use air conditioning up to the end of the DU operating faults current page heating system up to the end of the DU heating and air conditioning system current page air conditioning up to the end of the DU fuel consumption current page maintenance current page ECO mode current page temperature regulation up to the end of the DU ventilation up to the end of the DU AIR CONDITIONING information and operating instructions Type of refrigerant fluid A A A Type of oil in the air condi tioning circuit Inflammable product Consult the driver s hand book Maintenance Quantity of refrigerant x.xxx kg fluid present in the ve hicle. The refrigerant fluid circuit of which some components are hermetically Global Warming sealed may contain fluorinated green GWP xxxxx Potential CO equi house gases. valent. Depending on the vehicle you will find the following information on label A af CO eq Quantity in weight and Do not open the refriger fixed inside the engine compartment. ant circuit. The fluid may x.xx t in CO equivalent. The presence and location of the infor damage eyes or skin. mation on label A depends on the ve hicle. Before carrying out any action in the engine com partment you must switch off the ignition ENG UD Air conditionn informations et conseils utilisation BFB KFB Renault OUTSIDE AIR QUALITY AND DEODORISATION FUNCTION To access the function from the multi media screen refer to the multimedia instructions. Outside air quality The quality of the air in the vehicle is shown via an explanatory text and an animation on the multimedia screen. Please refer to the multimedia equipment instructions for further in formation ENG UD Fonction qualit de l air ext rieur BFB KFB Renault Outside air quality and deodorisation functions deodourisation up to the end of the DU exterior air quality up to the end of the DU MULTIMEDIA EQUIPMENT Multimedia settings Hands free telephone integrated control Multimedia screen Steering column controls For equipped vehicles use the steering Steering wheel controls wheel controls. Microphone. Using the telephone We remind you of the need to conform to the legislation in force concerning the use Refer to the equipment instructions of such equipment. for information on how to operate this equipment ENG UD Equipement Multim dia BFB KFB Renault Multimedia equipment multimedia equipment screens up to the end of the DU multimedia screen telephone current page up to the end of the DU controls navigation system steering wheel control up to the end of the DU current page hands free telephone integrated control up to the end of the DU navigation up to the end of the DU radio up to the end of the DU display current page multimedia equipment up to the end of the DU screen navigation screen up to the end of the DU screen navigation display up to the end of the DU MULTIMEDIA EQUIPMENT Multimedia sockets The sockets USB can also recharge ac cessories with a maximum power rating You can use the USB ports or de of Watts voltage V per socket pending on the vehicle the SD card which have been approved by our reader to access the multimedia con Technical Department. tent of your accessories and the system update please refer to the equipment The JACK socket enables the radio to instructions. be used with an auxiliary cable. The various sources can be selected from the multimedia screen and from the steering column controls. Connect accessories with a maximum power of watts only. Fire hazard ENG UD Equipement Multim dia BFB KFB Renault accessories socket current page ELECTRIC WINDOWS Electric windows These systems operate with the engine running with the ignition off until one of the front doors is opened limited to ap proximately minutes. with the engine off front doors closed after pressing the start button. Press the window switch down or pull it up to lower or raise the window to the desired height the rear windows do not open fully. From the driver s seat use switch for the driver s side for the front passenger side and for the rear passenger win Safety of rear occupants dows. The driver can prevent operation of the rear electric windows by pressing From the passenger seats use switch. A confirmation message is displayed on the instrument panel. switch. Driver s responsibility Never leave your vehicle with the card or key inside when there is a child de pendent adult or a pet in it even for a short while. They may pose a risk to them selves or to others by starting the engine or activating equipment such as the gear lever or electric windows. If any part of the body becomes trapped reverse the direction of the window immediately by pressing the relevant switch. Risk of serious injury. Avoid resting any objects against a half open window there is a risk that the electric window could be damaged ENG UD BFB L ve vitres lectriques BFB KFB Renault Electric windows electric windows up to the end of the DU children safety up to the end of the DU child safety up to the end of the DU ELECTRIC WINDOWS One touch mode Remote control window closing vehicles with one touch electric win This mode works in addition to the ope dows. ration of the electric windows described When you lock the doors from the out previously. side press the locking button on the Briefly press or pull the window switch card twice in quick succession or on fully the window is fully lowered or the driver s door in hands free mode raised. Pressing the switch again stops and all the windows will close automati the window moving. cally including the sunroof if present. It is recommended that the user only Impossible to operate the one touch operates the system when the vehi electric window cle can be seen clearly and no one is The one touch electric window is inside. equipped with heat protection if you press the switch for the window more Operating faults than sixteen consecutive times it goes In case of a fault when closing a into protection mode locking the Manual window winder window the system reverts to normal window. controls mode pull the switch concerned up You can as often as necessary to fully close Turn handle. use the electric window switch briefly the window then hold the switch still and with intervals of approximately on the closure side for approximately seconds one second then lower and raise the with the engine running the window window fully to reinitialise the system. will be unlocked after approximately If necessary contact an approved minutes of inaction on the electric Dealer. window switch. When closing the windows Note if the window detects resistance ensure that no part of the when closing e.g. branch of a tree body arm hand etc. is etc. it stops and then lowers again by a protruding from the vehicle. few centimetres. Risk of serious injury ENG UD BFB L ve vitres lectriques BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page ELECTRIC SUNROOF B A C D Driver s responsibility Never leave an animal child or non autonomous adult alone in your vehicle even for a short time. To slide the curtain To slide the sunroof The reason for this is that the child To open push the handle rear To tilt move the marked position may endanger himself or others by wards to move the blind to the de to position A starting the engine activating equip sired position to open move the marked posi ment such as the window winders to close pull the handle forwards tion to position B C or Ddepending for example or locking the doors. to move the blind to the desired posi on the type of opening required If something gets trapped reverse tion. to close move the marked posi the direction of travel as soon as tion to position. possible by turning button fully to the right position D. Risk of serious injury ENG UD Toit ouvrant lectrique BFB KFB Renault Electric sunroof sunroof up to the end of the DU children safety up to the end of the DU child safety up to the end of the DU opening closing sunroof up to the end of the DU opening closing sunroof up to the end of the DU ELECTRIC SUNROOF Closing the sunroof by remote control If you press twice on the card lock ing button in quick succession or on the driver s door locking button in hands free mode all the windows and the sunroof will lock automatically. B A C It is recommended that the user only operates the system when the vehi D cle can be seen clearly and no one is inside. Special features Your vehicle is fitted with an anti pinch facility when the sunroof encounters resistance whilst closing branch of a tree etc. it stops and then moves back a few centimetres. After closing the sunroof by remote control pressing button allows the sunroof to return to its previous posi tion. If the vehicle is equipped When closing the sunroof with this function this action The sunroof will not open when the ensure that no part of the will activate deadlocking. temperature is below C. However body arm hand etc. is. or it will still close. protruding from the vehicle. Check that there is no one still Risk of serious injury. inside the vehicle. ENG UD Toit ouvrant lectrique BFB KFB Renault ELECTRIC SUNROOF Precautions during use Vehicle with loaded roof bars. As a general rule if there is a load on the roof use of the sunroof is not recommended. Before using the sunroof check the B A C objects and or accessories bike racks roof boxes etc. attached to D the roof bars they should be prop erly arranged and secured and Driver s responsibility should not interfere with the opera tion of the sunroof. Never leave an animal child or non autonomous Contact an approved dealer for de adult alone in your vehicle tails of possible conversions even for a short time. Operating faults check that the sunroof is properly The reason for this is that the child closed before leaving your vehicle If the sunroof will not close move the may endanger himself or others by marked position to position then clean the seal every three months starting the engine activating equip press button until the sunroof is com using products recommended by our ment such as the window winders pletely closed consult an approved Technical Department for example or locking the doors. dealer. do not open the sunroof immedi If something gets trapped reverse ately after it has rained or immedi the direction of travel as soon as ately after washing the vehicle. possible by turning button fully to the right position D. Risk of serious injury. Important during this operation the sunroof anti pinch function is de activated. Contact your approved Dealer as soon as possible ENG UD Toit ouvrant lectrique BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page INTERIOR LIGHTING Map reading lights Courtesy light Note on vehicles equipped with a mul timedia system from the multimedia Press switch to get Press switch for screen. you can permanent lighting permanent lighting deactivate activate illumination of immediate switching off. intermittent lighting which comes the courtesy lights upon opening of on when a door is opened. It only the luggage compartment doors switches off after a time delay and depending on the vehicle change when the doors concerned have the colour of the ambient light pos been closed correctly sible choices. lighting switches off immediately. Glove box light Map reading lights Press switches and. The light comes on when the cover is opened. When the doors or boot are un locked and opened the reading and footwell lights come on temporarily ENG UD Eclairage int rieur BFB KFB Renault Interior lighting lighting interior up to the end of the DU courtesy light up to the end of the DU map reading lights up to the end of the DU reading lights up to the end of the DU lighting glovebox up to the end of the DU lighting luggage compartment up to the end of the DU INTERIOR LIGHTING Luggage compartment light The light comes on when the luggage compartment is opened. With the doors properly shut lock ing or starting the engine makes the interior lights and the courtesy lights go out ENG UD Eclairage int rieur BFB KFB Renault SUN VISOR BLINDS Front sun visor Ticket holder Lower the sun visor on the wind Can be used to hold motorway toll tick screen or unclip it and lower it over the ets maps etc. side window. Vanity mirror Lift the cover. The light switches on automatically. When driving ensure the courtesy mirror cover is closed. Risk of injury ENG UD Pare soleil stores BFB KFB Renault Sun visor blinds sun visor up to the end of the DU courtesy mirrors up to the end of the DU sun blinds up to the end of the DU sun visor current page PASSENGER COMPARTMENT STORAGE SPACE AND FITTINGS Door pockets Passenger storage Sun blind storage compartment compartment It can hold a bottle. Pull handle to open it. This can be used for storing motorway tickets cards etc. The glove box can hold A sized docu ments a bottle etc. Ensure that no hard heavy or pointed objects are Nothing should be placed placed in the open sto on the floor area in front of rage compartments in such the driver as such objects a way that they may fall onto pas may slide under the pedal sengers during sudden turning or during braking manoeuvres thus braking. obstructing its use ENG UD Rangements am nagements habitacle BFB KFB Renault Passenger compartment storage fittings storage compartments up to the end of the DU storage compartment up to the end of the DU fittings up to the end of the DU PASSENGER COMPARTMENT STORAGE SPACE AND FITTINGS Central storage Cup holders compartment A sliding system holds maintains the cups. Central storage compartment When turning corners accelerating or braking Ensure that no hard heavy ensure that the recepta or pointed objects are cle being held by the cup placed in the open stor holder is not dislodged. age compartments in such There is a risk of burning if hot liquid a way that they may fall onto pas escapes. sengers during sudden turning or braking ENG UD Rangements am nagements habitacle BFB KFB Renault PASSENGER COMPARTMENT STORAGE SPACE AND FITTINGS Central storage Grab handle compartment This offers support and can be held With the sliding armrest in its rear when the vehicle is being driven. most position raise it. Do not use it for getting into or out of the vehicle. Clothes hooks Nothing should be placed on the floor area in front of the driver as such objects may slide under the pedal during braking manoeuvres thus obstructing its use ENG UD Rangements am nagements habitacle BFB KFB Renault armrest front current page grab handle current page PASSENGER COMPARTMENT STORAGE SPACE AND FITTINGS Rear door storage Front seat storage pockets Rear armrest with cup holder compartment Lower armrest. Rear central storage compartment Ensure that no hard heavy When turning corners or pointed objects are accelerating or braking placed in the open sto ensure that the recepta rage compartments in such cle being held by the cup a way that they may fall onto pas holder is not dislodged. sengers during sudden turning or There is a risk of burning if hot braking. liquid escapes ENG UD Rangements am nagements habitacle BFB KFB Renault armrest rear current page ASHTRAY CIGARETTE LIGHTER ACCESSORIES SOCKET Cigarette lighter Ashtray With the ignition on push in cigar It can be housed in either position. lighter it will spring back with a click To open lift the cover. To empty pull the when it is ready. Pull it out to use. After ashtray towards you and it will be re use replace it without pushing it all the leased from its housing. way in. Connect accessories with a maximum power of watts V only. When several accessory sockets are used at the same time the total power of the connected accessories must not exceed If your vehicle is not fitted with a watts. cigar lighter and an ashtray these Fire hazard. can be obtained from an authorised dealer ENG UD Cendriers Allume cigares BFB KFB Renault Accessories socket Ashtray Cigarette lighter ashtray up to the end of the DU cigar lighter up to the end of the DU accessories socket up to the end of the DU ASHTRAY CIGARETTE LIGHTER ACCESSORIES SOCKET Accessories sockets You can use the one of sockets. They are provided for connecting ac cessories approved by our Technical Department. Connect accessories with a maximum power of watts V only. When several accessory sockets are used at the same time the total power of the connected accessories must not exceed watts. Fire hazard ENG UD Cendriers Allume cigares BFB KFB Renault REAR HEADRESTS A B Position for using the central Centre seat headrest B To remove a headrest headrest A storage position Raise the headrest as far as it will go Raise the headrest as far as possible to Press the button and lower the head then press button and remove the use it in the high position. Check that it rest completely. headrest. is correctly locked. Set the headrest at the lowest po sition or tilted forwards for storage To refit a headrest only do not set it in this position when Insert the rods in the holes press the the seat is occupied or if the child seat button and lower the headrest. Check is fitted. that the bonnet is correctly locked. The headrest is a safety component check that it is fitted and in the correct po sition. The top of the head rest should be as close as possible to the top of the head ENG UD Appuis t te arri re BFB Renault Rear headrests headrest up to the end of the DU REAR HEADRESTS A B Storage position for the side headrests Press the button and depending on the vehicle fully lower movement A the head rest or lower and tilt movement B the headrest fully forwards ENG UD Appuis t te arri re BFB Renault REAR BENCH SEAT The configuration of the two seat bench with the small seatback B pulled down does not allow the central seat to be used as it would be impossible to buckle the seat belt B belt buckles inaccessible. A When refitting the seat back make sure it is cor rectly locked in place. To manually fold down the Pull the control and lower the seat If seat covers are fitted seatbacks back A. make sure these do not prevent the seatback latch from locking in. Ensure that the front seats are far To replace the seatback proceed in Make sure that the seat belts are the reverse order to removal. enough forward. positioned correctly. Refit the seatback and click it back into Raise the side headrests to the highest place. Reposition the headrests. position and lower the central headrest fully. Depending on the vehicle put the seat belt in the belt guide to avoid damag ing it or buckle it its own unit. This will prevent the seat belt becoming trapped When moving the rear when the seat is returned to its position seats ensure that nothing for use. In all cases check that the seat obstructs the anchorage belts are operating correctly. For safety reasons carry points passenger s arm or out any adjustments when leg a pet gravel cloth toys etc the vehicle is not being driven ENG UD Banquette arri re BFB Renault Rear bench seat rear bench seat up to the end of the DU rear seats functions up to the end of the DU REAR BENCH SEAT Conditions of use Vehicle stationary luggage compartment lid open rear seat belts locked. Operating faults If all user conditions have been ful filled and the folding action still fails to operate please contact an authorised dealer. To automatically fold down the seatbacks flat position Estate version From the boot pulling the control enables you to automatically unlock the rear bench seatbacks to get a flat floor. When moving the rear seats ensure that nothing obstructs the anchorage points passenger s arm or leg a pet gravel cloth toys etc ENG UD Banquette arri re BFB Renault LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT DOOR VERSION Depending on the vehicle there are various ways to unlock and operate the luggage compartment lid using the locking unlocking button on the remote control key. using the locking unlocking button on the card. via the external boot lid control using the hands free function using the dashboard control. Manual controls To open Depending on the vehicle press the dashboard control or the button the tailgate opens automatically. When opening or closing the lug Note ensure that the surrounding gage compartment lid ensure that space is sufficient to permit operation nothing obstructs the manoeuvre. of the boot lid before you open it. As a safety precaution Ensure that nobody is close the doors should only be to the moving parts when opened or closed when the opening closing the boot lid. vehicle is stationary. Risk of injury. Risk of injury ENG UD Coffre bagages version portes BFB KFB Renault Luggage compartment tailgate up to the end of the DU tailgate up to the end of the DU tailgate up to the end of the DU LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT DOOR VERSION The sensor detects the approach and then the removal of your foot and trig gers the opening of the boot lid. Do not keep your foot in the air. Perform the movement without stopping and wi thout touching the rear bumper. A B To close Using the hands free function Lower the boot lid using the handle The hands free function enables inside the boot to assist you. access to the luggage compartment when you have your hands full. Ensure that the card is approximately Disable the hands free metre away in the central area of the function before you rear bumper of the vehicle area B. wash the vehicle in a With the ignition off stand approxi roller type car wash mately cm from the vehicle s rear wash the vehicle by hand bumper and move your foot forwards handle the towbar and backwards in area A. Risk of accidental opening of the luggage compartment lid which may cause injury ENG UD Coffre bagages version portes BFB KFB Renault handsfree up to the end of the DU LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT DOOR VERSION Activation deactivation of the User precautions hands free function Before opening the tailgate ensure To activate or deactivate the function that the surrounding space is suffi refer to the multimedia instructions. cient to permit operation of the tail gate. Otherwise stop the movement Select ON or OFF. of the boot lid before it makes con tact. Usage features of the hands free function The system may experience tempo The hands free function is no longer rary difficulties if one of the sensors available after a few days of lack of integrated in the rear of the bumper movement of the vehicle or after is obscured by dirt mud snow grit around minutes if the vehicle is ting salt etc Clean the sensors. If unlocked. To reactivate it use the there is still a problem contact an unlocking button on the card. approved dealer. The hands free function is only avail Note in very cold weather conditions able if the vehicle is stationary and the automatic opening may not work if Opening the doors manually the engine is switched off and not the tailgate seals are frozen. from the inside on standby with the Stop and start If it is impossible to unlock the tailgate function. it can be done manually from inside The hands free feature may not access the luggage compartment by work if the vehicle is equipped with a folding forward the seatback s of towbar or is in an area of high elec the rear bench seat tromagnetic radiation. insert a flat blade screwdriver or The attachment of any similar under the carpet above the carrying device bike rack mechanism and slide the unit as luggage box etc. resting on shown in the illustration the luggage compartment lid is prohibited. To install a carrying push the boot lid to open it. device on your vehicle contact an Approved Dealer ENG UD Coffre bagages version portes BFB KFB Renault LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT DOOR VERSION To open Opening manually from Press button and lift the tailgate. inside the vehicle To close Special note Lower the tailgate using the handles If it is impossible to unlock the tailgate inside the tailgate to help you. it can be done manually from inside access the luggage compartment by folding forward the seatback s of the rear bench seat The attaching of any carry ing device bike rack lug insert a pencil or similar object in gage box etc. resting on recess and slide the unit as shown the luggage compartment in the illustration lid is prohibited. To install a carrying push the tailgate to open it. device on your vehicle contact an Approved Dealer ENG UD Coffre bagages version portes BFB KFB Renault tailgate up to the end of the DU tailgate up to the end of the DU REAR PARCEL SHELF Removal Unclip the rear parcel shelf and pull it towards you. Unhook the two cords tailgate side. To refit it proceed in reverse order to removal. Do not place any heavy or hard object on the parcel shelf. These may pose a risk to the vehicle occu pants if the driver has to brake sud denly or if the vehicle is involved in an accident ENG UD Tablette arri re BFB KFB Renault Rear parcel shelf rear parcel shelf up to the end of the DU tailgate up to the end of the DU rear parcel shelf up to the end of the DU LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT COVER A B C A To remove the flexible Removing refitting the Luggage compartment cover section of the luggage luggage cover storage compartment cover Slide section movement A and lift Lift section of the luggage compart Press handle to release the pins from the right hand side movement B of ment floor. their mounting points located on each the roller at the same time. Pivot the luggage cover so that the side of the luggage compartment. Then lift the left hand side of the roller handle is visible and towards the front Allow the luggage cover to roll up. and then remove the assembly. of the vehicle. To refit the luggage cover carry out this Store the luggage cover handle for procedure in reverse. wards firstly by inserting the left hand side into its housing then insert the right hand side movement C by slid ing section movement A. Close the luggage compartment floor. Do not place any heavy or solid objects on the luggage cover. These may pose a risk to the vehicle occupants if the driver has to brake suddenly or if the vehicle is involved in an accident ENG UD Cache bagages BFB KFB Renault Luggage cover luggage compartment cover up to the end of the DU rear parcel shelf up to the end of the DU luggage compartment up to the end of the DU tailgate up to the end of the DU luggage compartment floor up to the end of the DU LUGGAGE NET A B Depending on the vehicle this may be Fitting the luggage net if using the net for the first time to used when transporting animals or lug behind the front seats access the anchorage points lo gage to isolate them from the passen cated under the carpet contact an ger section. Inside the vehicle on each side Approved Dealer It can be positioned lower cover to gain access to the attach the two hooks for the net anchoring points for the top part of straps to the anchoring points behind the rear seats A the luggage net adjust the net strap so that it is taut. behind the front seats B. insert the top rod of net into the an choring points The luggage net is de signed to retain a maximum weight of kg. Do not install the luggage net in this position when a passenger is occu Risk of injury. pying a rear seat ENG UD Filet de s paration BFB KFB Renault Luggage net transporting objects luggage net up to the end of the DU luggage retaining net up to the end of the DU hooks for towing up to the end of the DU towing rings up to the end of the DU deflector luggage net up to the end of the DU luggage compartment up to the end of the DU tailgate up to the end of the DU LUGGAGE NET Fitting the luggage net fix the net belt hook onto the ancho behind the rear seats ring points Inside the vehicle on each side adjust net strap so that it is taut. The seatbacks must not touch the luggage lift cover to access the luggage net net. upper mounting rail insert upper rod for the net into the rail. ENG UD Filet de s paration BFB KFB Renault BOOT STORAGE SPACE AND FITTINGS Storage under the carpet The false floor can be attached using the hook in the housing. To gain access to this lift the boot carpet using the tab. Always place objects being trans ported so that the heaviest items are resting against the back of the rear bench seat ENG UD Am nagements coffre bagages BFB KFB Renault Luggage compartment storage space fittings storage compartments up to the end of the DU tailgate up to the end of the DU storage organisation luggage compartment up to the end of the DU towing rings up to the end of the DU mobile floor up to the end of the DU hooks bag hooks up to the end of the DU hooks for towing up to the end of the DU BOOT STORAGE SPACE AND FITTINGS A A B B C Mobile floor Storage position Separation position Estate version This enables more space for storage in This enables you to compartmentalise It is made up of two independent the luggage compartment the boot into two separate spaces. parts A and B. Remove part B then part A of the Slide your fingers under the spaces. When the rear seats are folded down mobile floor this position provides a flat floor. place part A then part B under the supports and. Maximum load allowed on the mobile floor when flat kg evenly distributed ENG UD Am nagements coffre bagages BFB KFB Renault BOOT STORAGE SPACE AND FITTINGS A C B Lift part C into the vertical position until Storage under floor Lift part A using handle and place it it locks. on the lugs. To access it lift part B of the mobile floor using the handle then place it on part A ENG UD Am nagements coffre bagages BFB KFB Renault BOOT STORAGE SPACE AND FITTINGS Anchorage points Attachment points. If your vehicle is not equipped with anchorage points you can get them from an authorised dealer. Always position the heaviest items directly on the floor. Use the lashing points on the boot floor if these are fitted to the vehicle. The luggage should be loaded in such a way that no items will be thrown forward and Always place objects being trans strike the occupants if the driver has to brake suddenly. Fasten the rear ported so that the heaviest items seat belts even if the seats are not occupied. are resting against the back of the rear bench seat ENG UD Am nagements coffre bagages BFB KFB Renault BOOT STORAGE SPACE AND FITTINGS Bag hooks Storage compartment Estate version Maximum weight per hook kg ENG UD Am nagements coffre bagages BFB KFB Renault TRANSPORTING OBJECTS IN THE LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT Always position the objects transported so that the largest surface is against The rear bench seatback for normal loading example A A The front seatbacks with the rear B seatbacks folded down as is the case for maximum loads example B. Always position the heavi If you have to place objects on the folded est items directly on the seatback it is necessary that you lower floor. Use the lashing the headrests before folding the seat points on the boot floor if back so that it can be folded as flat as these are fitted to the vehicle. The possible against the seat. luggage should be loaded in such a way that no items will be thrown for ward and strike the occupants if the driver has to brake suddenly. Fasten the rear seat belts even if the seats are not occupied ENG UD Transport d objets dans le coffre BFB KFB Renault Transporting objects in the luggage compartment transporting objects in the luggage compartment up to the end of the DU towing rings up to the end of the DU towing a caravan current page towing towing equipment current page tailgate up to the end of the DU TRANSPORTING OBJECTS towbar A Permissible nose weight maxi mum permissible towing weight A mm maximum door version. braked and unbraked A mm maximum Estate version. Choice and fitting of towing A mm maximum door version. equipment Maximum weight of towing equip ment Any towing device must not ob kg door version struct any lighting component or the number plate when not in use. kg seater and estate ver Towing devices ball hook etc. sions. which can be removed without tools For fitting and conditions of use and retractable objects must be re refer to the equipment s fitting in moved or repositioned when they structions. are not in use. Please keep these instructions with In all cases you must comply with the rest of the vehicle documenta the regulations of the particular tion. country you are in ENG UD Transport d objets attelage BFB KFB Renault Transporting objects towbar equipment fitting up to the end of the DU equipment up to the end of the DU towing a caravan up to the end of the DU towing towing equipment up to the end of the DU towing up to the end of the DU ROOF BARS Access to the mounting Vehicles not fitted with longitudinal points roof bars Open the doors to access the mount ing points. If original roof bars ap For information on the range of equipment adapted to your vehicle we advise you proved by our Technical to consult an approved Dealer. Department are supplied Refer to the fitting instructions for information on how to fit roof bars and condi with screws only use these tions of use. screws for attaching the roof bars to the vehicle. Please keep these instructions with the rest of the vehicle documentation. Maximum permissible load on roof rack ENG UD Barres de toit BFB KFB Renault Roof bars roof bars up to the end of the DU roof rack roof bars up to the end of the DU ROOF BARS Precautions during use Handling the tailgate Before handling the tailgate check the objects and or accessories bike rack roof box etc. fitted to the roof bars these must be correctly positioned and secured so as not to hinder the opera tion of the tailgate. Vehicles fitted with longitudinal roof bars The attachment inserts are located on the longitudinal roof bars. The attaching of any carry ing device bike rack lug gage box etc. resting on the luggage compartment lid is prohibited. To install a carrying device on your vehicle contact an Approved Dealer ENG UD Barres de toit BFB KFB Renault Section Maintenance Bonnet Engine oil level general information Engine oil level topping up and filling Oil change Levels engine coolant brake fluid windscreen washer reservoir Filters Battery Tyre Pressure Bodywork maintenance Interior trim maintenance ENG UD Sommaire BFB KFB Renault BONNET When working in the engine To open pull handle located on the Unlocking the bonnet catch compartment ensure that left hand side of the dashboard. the windscreen wiper stalk To unlock push tab at the same time is in the park position. as opening the bonnet. Risk of injury. Opening the bonnet Lift the bonnet guiding it up and it will rest in position with the help of two Please note when work struts. ing close to the engine that it may be hot. In addition the engine cooling fa n may come on at any moment. The Before carrying out any label in the engine compartment re action in the engine com minds you of this. Do not press down on the partment you must switch bonnet there is a risk that Risk of injury. off the ignition the bonnet may accidentally close ENG UD Capot moteur BFB KFB Renault Bonnet bonnet up to the end of the DU maintenance mechanical up to the end of the DU opening closing bonnet up to the end of the DU opening closing bonnet up to the end of the DU BONNET Closing the bonnet Check that nothing has been left in the engine compartment. To close the bonnet again hold the bonnet in the middle and guide it down allowing a cm gap before it is closed then release it. It will latch automatically under its own weight. After any procedure in the engine compartment make sure that you do not forget anything cloth tools etc These may damage the engine or cause a fire. Ensure that the bonnet is In the event of even a slight properly locked. impact involving the radia tor grille or bonnet have the Check that nothing is pre bonnet lock checked by an venting the catch from lock authorised dealer as soon as pos ing gravel cloth etc sible ENG UD Capot moteur BFB KFB Renault ENGINE OIL LEVEL general information It is normal for an engine to use oil for B lubrication and cooling of moving parts and it is normal to top up the level be Before carrying out any A tween oil changes. action in the engine com partment you must switch However contact your approved off the ignition Dealer if more than. litres is being C consumed every miles km after the running in period. Oil change frequency check the oil B Adding engine oil level from time to time and certainly A Use a funnel or protect the before any long journey to avoid the filling neck area to avoid risk of damaging your engine. engine oil escaping onto a hot part of the engine compartment Reading the oil level or a sensitive part e.g. electrical components. Fire hazard. The oil level should be read with the ve remove the dipstick and wipe with a hicle on level ground after the engine clean lint free cloth has been switched off for some time. push the dipstick in as far as it will go for vehicles equipped with a cap The dipstick must be used to read type dipstick C screw the cap in as the exact oil level and make sure far as it will go that the maximum level has not been take out the dipstick again exceeded risk of engine damage. Exceeding the maximum read the level it should never fall Refer to the following pages. engine oil level below minimum mark A or exceed Under no circumstances The instrument panel display only maximum mark B. should maximum filling alerts the driver when the oil level is at Once the operation has been com level B be exceeded this could its minimum. pleted ensure that the dipstick is damage the engine and the anti pol pushed in as far as it will go or that lution system. If the level exceeds the cap type dipstick is completely the maximum level do not start screwed in. your vehicle and contact an autho rised dealer ENG UD Niveau huile moteur g n ralit s BFB KFB Renault Engine oil level general information engine oil current page oil change current page levels engine oil current page maintenance mechanical up to the end of the DU engine oil level up to the end of the DU dipstick up to the end of the DU ENGINE OIL LEVEL topping up filling draining Topping up Filling Unscrew cap Do not exceed the maxi level and The vehicle must be parked on level top up the level as a guide the ca do not forget to refit the cap and ground and the engine should be cold pacity between the mini and the the dipstick. for instance before the engine is maxi reading on the dipstick started up for the first time in the day. is between. and. gallons. and litres depending on the engine Adding engine oil wait for approximately minutes to Use a funnel or protect the allow the oil to flow into the engine filling neck area to avoid engine oil escaping onto a check the level using the dipstick hot part of the engine compartment as described above. or a sensitive part e.g. electrical Once the operation has been com components. Before carrying out any pleted ensure that the dipstick is action in the engine com Fire hazard. pushed in as far as it will go or that partment you must switch the cap type dipstick is completely off the ignition screwed in ENG UD Niveau huile moteur appoint remplissage BFB KFB Renault Engine oil level topping up and filling engine oil capacity up to the end of the DU maintenance mechanical up to the end of the DU filter oil filter up to the end of the DU engine oil up to the end of the DU engine oil level up to the end of the DU levels engine oil up to the end of the DU engine oil grade up to the end of the DU oil change up to the end of the DU ENGINE OIL LEVEL topping up filling draining Topping up Filling Unscrew cap The vehicle must be parked on level top up the level as a guide the ca Do not exceed the maxi level and ground and the engine should be cold pacity between the mini and the do not forget to refit the cap and for instance before the engine is maxi reading on the dipstick the dipstick. started up for the first time in the day. is between. and. gallons. and litres depending on the engine Adding engine oil wait for approximately minutes to Use a funnel or protect the allow the oil to flow into the engine filling neck area to avoid engine oil escaping onto a check the level using the dipstick hot part of the engine compartment as described above. or a sensitive part e.g. electrical Once the operation has been com components. Before carrying out any pleted ensure that the dipstick is action in the engine com Fire hazard. pushed in as far as it will go or that partment you must switch the cap type dipstick is completely off the ignition screwed in ENG UD Niveau huile moteur appoint remplissage BFB KFB Renault ENGINE OIL LEVEL topping up filling draining Oil change Engine oil grade Service interval refer to the Refer to the Maintenance Service Maintenance Service Booklet for your Booklet for your vehicle. vehicle. Oil change capacity Please refer to the maintenance docu ment for your vehicle or contact an au Consult your approved Dealer at Filling take care when thorised dealer. once if you notice an abnormal or topping up the oil that Always check the engine oil level using repeated drop in any of the fluid no oil drips onto engine the dipstick as explained previously it levels. components risk of fire. should never fall below the minimum Remember to refit the cap securely level or be over the maximum level on as there is a risk of fire if oil splashes the dipstick. When working in the engine onto hot engine components. compartment ensure that the windscreen wiper stalk is in the park position. Risk of injury. Exceeding the maximum engine oil level Never run the engine in an enclosed space as exhaust Under no circumstances Please note when work gases are poisonous. should the maximum fill ing close to the engine that ing level be exceeded this could it may be hot. The engine damage the engine and the emis cooling fan m ay also start sion control system. If the level exceeds the maximum at any moment. The warning level do not start your vehicle and light in the engine compartment re Engine oil change if you contact an authorised dealer. minds you of this. are changing the oil when the engine is hot be careful Risk of injury. not to scald yourself if the oil overflows ENG UD Niveau huile moteur appoint remplissage BFB KFB Renault Oil changeLEVELS FILTERS Checking intervals Replacement intervals Check the coolant level regularly Refer to the Maintenance Document for very severe damage is likely to be your vehicle. caused to the engine if it runs out of coolant. If the level needs to be topped up only use products approved by our Technical Department which ensure protection against freezing anticorrosion protection of the cool ing system. Please note when work Coolant level ing close to the engine that With the engine switched off and on it may be hot. The engine level ground the level when cold must cooling fan m ay also start be between the MINI and MAXI at any moment. The warning marks on coolant reservoir. Consult your approved dealer at light in the engine compartment re once if you notice an abnormal or Top this level up when cold before it minds you of this. repeated drop in any of the fluid reaches the MIN mark. levels. Risk of injury. No operations should be carried out on the cooling Before carrying out any circuit when the engine is action in the engine com hot. partment you must switch Risk of burns. off the ignition ENG UD Niveaux BFB KFB Renault Levels engine coolant levels coolant current page tanks and reservoirs coolant current page coolant current page levels up to the end of the DU engine coolant current page LEVELS FILTERS Level Topping up It is normal for the level to drop as After any operation on the hydraulic cir the linings become worn but it should cuit a specialist must replace the fluid. never drop below the MINI warning Only use fluids approved by our line. Technical Department and taken from If you wish to check the disc and drum a sealed container. wear yourself you should obtain the document explaining the checking pro Replacement intervals cedure from our network or from the Refer to the Maintenance Document for manufacturer s website. your vehicle. Brake fluid level This should be checked frequently and If there is an abnormal or repeated any time you notice even the slightest drop in the fluid level consult an ap loss in braking efficiency. proved dealer. The level should be read with the engine switched off and on level ground. Please note when work ing close to the engine that it may be hot. The engine cooling fan m ay also start at any moment. The warning light in the engine compartment re Before carrying out any minds you of this. action in the engine com partment you must switch Risk of injury. off the ignition ENG UD Niveaux BFB KFB Renault brake fluid brake fluid current page levels brake fluid current page tanks and reservoirs brake fluid current page LEVELS FILTERS Liquid Filters Windscreen washer fluid. In winter use The replacement of filter elements air anti freeze product. Use products rec filter passenger compartment filter ommended by an authorised dealer. diesel filter etc. is scheduled in the Note do not use pure water risk of maintenance operations for your vehi damage to the priming pump limescale cle. building up on the pump and the jets. Replacement intervals for filter el ements refer to the Maintenance Jets Document for your vehicle. To adjust the windscreen washer jets please consult an authorised dealer. Windscreen washer reservoir Topping up With the engine switched off open cap fill until you can see the fluid then refit the cap. Note Regularly check the reservoir level by topping up the liquid before taking a trip ENG UD Niveaux BFB KFB Renault windscreen washer reservoir Filters levels windscreen washer reservoir current page windscreen washer current page filter air filter current page filter passenger compartment filter current page filter oil filter current page filter diesel filter current page tanks and reservoirs windscreen washer current page BATTERY The charge status of your battery can decrease especially if you use your ve hicle for short journeys for driving in town when the temperature drops after extended use of energy con suming devices radio etc. with the engine switched off. Battery does not require any mainte Before carrying out any nance. You should not open it or add action in the engine com any fluid. partment you must switch Depending on the vehicle a system off the ignition continuously checks the battery charge status. If this decreases the message Battery low start engine is displayed on the instrument panel. In this case Please note when work start the engine. The message will go ing close to the engine that off. it may be hot. In addition the engine cooling fa n may start at any moment. The warning light in the engine compart ment reminds you of this. Risk of injury ENG UD Batterie BFB KFB Renault Battery battery up to the end of the DU maintenance mechanical up to the end of the DU battery maintenance up to the end of the DU battery replacement up to the end of the DU BATTERY A Replacing the battery For your own safety and for the proper operation of the vehicle s electrical equip ment lights windscreen wipers ABS etc. any intervention on the battery removal disconnec tion etc. must categorically be per formed by a specialist professional. Risk of serious burns or electric shocks. You must respect the replacement intervals without exceeding them Label A as stated in the maintenance docu Observe the indications on the battery ment. Naked flames and smoking are for The battery is a specific type bidden ensure that it is replaced by the same type. eye protection required Call an approved Dealer. keep away from children explosive materials refer to the handbook corrosive materials ENG UD Batterie BFB KFB Renault TYRE PRESSURE Vehicle fitted with a tyre pressure monitoring system A In the event of under inflation punc tures under inflation etc. the warning light appears on the instrument B panel C E F C E F A D E F G Label A B dimension of the tyres fitted to the vehicle. Open the door to read it. Tyre pressures should be checked C intended driving speed. when the tyres are cold. D recommended pressure for optimis If the tyre pressures cannot be checked ing fuel consumption. when the tyres are cold increase the NB driving comfort may be altered. Vehicle used fully laden pressures from. to. bar or PSI. Maximum Permissible Never deflate a hot tyre. E front tyre pressure. All up Weight and F rear tyre pressure. towing a trailer G tyre pressure for the emergency The maximum speed must be lim spare wheel. ited to mph km h and the tyre pressure increased by. bar psi Risk of tyre blowouts ENG UD Pression de gonflage des pneumatiques BFB KFB Renault Tyre Pressure tyre pressure up to the end of the DU tyre pressures up to the end of the DU tyres up to the end of the DU tyre pressure monitor up to the end of the DU TYRE PRESSURES Tyre safety and use of snow chains. to learn the maintenance con ditions and the conditions for fitting chains to different versions of the ve hicle. For your safety please re spect the speed limit. When they need to be re placed only tyres of the same make size type and profile should be used on a single axle. They must either have a load ca pacity and speed rating at least equal to those of the original tyres or conform to those recom mended by an authorised dealer. Failure to heed these instructions could endanger your safety and affect your vehicle s roadworthi ness. Risk of loss of control of the ve hicle ENG UD Pression de gonflage des pneumatiques BFB KFB Renault BODYWORK MAINTENANCE A well maintained vehicle will last You should Respect local regulations about wash longer. It is therefore recommended to ing vehicles e.g. do not wash your ve Wash your car frequently with the maintain the exterior of the vehicle reg hicle on a public highway. engine off with cleaning products rec ularly. ommended by the manufacturer never Observe the vehicle stopping distances Your vehicle has been treated with very use abrasive products. Rinse thor when driving on gravelled surfaces to effective anti corrosion products. It is oughly beforehand with a jet prevent paint damage. nevertheless subject to various outside spots of tree resin and industrial Repair or have repaired quickly areas influences. grime where the paint has been damaged to mud in the wheel arches and under prevent corrosion spreading. Corrosive agents in the atmosphere neath the body which forms damp atmospheric pollution built up and patches Remember to visit the body shop pe industrial areas bird droppings which cause a riodically in order to maintain your an saline atmospheres near the sea chemical reaction with the paint that ti corrosion warranty. Refer to the particularly in hot weather Maintenance Document. rapidly discolours paintwork and seasonal and damp weather condi may even cause the paint to peel If it is necessary to clean mechani tions e.g. road salt in winter water off cal components hinges etc. spray from road cleaners etc wash the vehicle immediately to them with products approved by our remove these marks since it is im Technical Department to protect them Minor impacts possible to remove them by polish after they have been cleaned. ing Abrasive action salt particularly in the wheel arches Dust and sand in the air mud road grit and underneath the body after driv thrown up by other vehicles etc. ing in areas where the roads have You should take a number of minor pre been gritted. cautions in order to safeguard your ve Remove any plant matter resin leaves hicle against such risks. etc. from the vehicle regularly. We have selected special products to care for your vehicle and you can obtain these from the manufactur er s accessory outlets ENG UD Entretien de la carrosserie peinture mate BFB KFB Renault Bodywork maintenance maintenance bodywork up to the end of the DU washing up to the end of the DU paint maintenance up to the end of the DU anti corrosion protection current page BODYWORK MAINTENANCE What you should not do Wash the vehicle in bright sunlight or freezing temperatures. Degrease or clean using high pressure cleaning Do not scrape off mud or dirt without equipment or by spray pre wetting. ing on products not ap Allow dirt to accumulate on the exterior. proved by our Technical Department Allow rust to form following minor im mechanical components e.g. pacts. engine compartment Do not use solvents not approved by the wheels e.g. braking system our Technical Department to remove components such as brake calli stains as this could damage the paint pers work. underbody Do not drive in snow or muddy condi tions without washing the vehicle par parts with hinges e.g. inside the ticularly under the wheel arches and doors body. painted plastic external fittings e.g. bumpers. Doing this could give rise to corrosion or operational faults ENG UD Entretien de la carrosserie peinture mate BFB KFB Renault BODYWORK MAINTENANCE Vehicles with a matte paint Using a roller type car wash Cleaning the headlights finish sensors and cameras Return the wiper stalk to the park po This type of paint requires certain pre sition Check the mounting of Use a soft cloth or cotton wool. cautions. external accessories additional lights If this does not clean them properly and rear view mirrors and ensure that moisten the cloth with soapy water You should do the following the wiper blades are secured with ad then wipe clean with a soft damp cloth Wash the vehicle by hand using plenty hesive tape. or cotton wool. of water using a soft cloth or a gentle Remove the radio aerial mast if your Finally carefully dry off with a soft dry sponge. vehicle is fitted with this equipment. cloth. Remember to remove the tape and refit Do not use cleaning products con Do not do the following the antenna after washing. taining alcohol or utensils e.g. a Use wax based products polishing. scraper. Rub too hard. Wash the vehicle in a roller type car wash. Attach stickers to the paintwork risk of leaving marks. Wash the vehicle using a high pressure cleaning device ENG UD Entretien de la carrosserie peinture mate BFB KFB Renault INTERIOR TRIM MAINTENANCE A well maintained vehicle will last Glass instrument panel Textiles seats door trim etc longer. It is therefore recommended to e.g. instrument panel clock exterior Vacuum clean the textiles regularly. maintain the interior of the vehicle regu temperature display etc. larly. Use a soft cloth or cotton wool. Liquid stain A stain should always be dealt with If this does not clean them properly Use soapy water. swiftly. use a soft cloth or cotton wool slightly Whatever type of stain is on the trim moistened with soapy water and then Dab lightly never rub with a soft cloth use cold or warm soapy water with wipe clean with another soft damp cloth rinse and remove the excess. natural soap. or cotton wool. Solid or pasty stain Finally carefully dry off with a soft dry Detergents washing up liquid pow cloth. Carefully remove the excess solid or dered products alcohol based prod pasty material immediately with a ucts should not be used. Do not use products containing alco spatula working from the edges to the hol and or spray fluids on the area. Use a soft cloth. centre to avoid spreading the stain. Clean as for a liquid stain. Rinse and wipe up excess water. Seat belts Special instructions for sweets or These must be kept clean. Multimedia screen chewing gum Use products selected by our Technical Maintenance of the screen may depend Department Approved outlets or Put an ice cube on the stain to solidify on the type of multimedia equipment. warm soapy water and a sponge and it then proceed as for a solid stain. Please refer to the multimedia instruc wipe with a dry cloth. tions for further information. Detergents or dyes must not be used under any circumstances. For further recommendations for maintaining the interior and or for any unsatisfactory results please see an authorised dealer ENG UD Entretien des garnitures int rieures X X X X X X X X X H Ph X X JFC HFE BFB KFB XFD XHA XFA X Ph Interior trim maintenance maintenance interior trim up to the end of the DU interior trim maintenance up to the end of the DU cleaning inside the vehicle up to the end of the DU INTERIOR TRIM MAINTENANCE Removal replacing removable You should not equipment originally fitted in Position objects such as deodorants the vehicle scents etc. near air vents as this could damage your dashboard trim. If you need to remove equipment in order to clean the passenger com partment for example mats always ensure that they are correctly refitted and are the right way around the driv er s mat should be fitted on the driver s Using high pressure side etc. and fit them with the compo cleaning equipment or nents supplied with the equipment for sprays inside the pas example the driver mat should always senger compartment be fixed using the pre fitted mounting components. without careful use this equipment With the vehicle stationary always could impair the correct functioning ensure that nothing will impede driving of the electrical or electronic compo anything obstructing the pedals heel nents in the vehicle or have other wedged by the mat etc detrimental effects ENG UD Entretien des garnitures int rieures X X X X X X X X X H Ph X X JFC HFE BFB KFB XFD XHA XFA X Ph. ENG UD Filler NU BFB Renault Section Practical advice Puncture emergency spare wheel Tyre inflation kit Tools Wheel trim Changing a wheel Tyres tyre and wheel safety use in winter Headlights changing bulbs Rear lights and side lights replacing bulbs Interior lighting changing bulbs Fuses Battery Card battery Radio frequency remote control batteries Accessories Wipers replacing blades Towing breakdown Operating faults ENG UD Sommaire BFB KFB Renault PUNCTURE EMERGENCY SPARE WHEEL In case of puncture Depending on the vehicle a tyre infla tion kit or emergency spare wheel is provided refer to the following pages. Special note The tyre pressure monitor function does not check the emergency spare wheel the wheel replaced by the emer gency spare wheel disappears from the instrument panel display If the emergency spare wheel has been stored for several years have it checked by your Dealer to ensure that it is safe to use. Vehicles fitted with an emergency spare wheel smaller than the four other wheels Never fit more than one emergency spare wheel to the same vehicle. As the punctured wheel is wider than the emergency spare wheel the vehicle s ground clearance is reduced. Replace the emergency spare wheel as soon as possible with a wheel with the If the vehicle is parked on same dimensions as the original. the hard shoulder you must When this is fitted to the vehicle which must only be a temporary measure the warn other road users of driving speed must not exceed the speed indicated on the label on the wheel. your vehicle s presence Fitting an emergency spare wheel may alter the way the vehicle usually runs. with a warning triangle or with other Avoid sudden acceleration or deceleration and reduce your speed when cor devices as per the legislation apply nering. ing to the country you are in. If you need to use snow chains fit the emergency spare wheel to the rear axle and check the tyre pressure ENG UD Crevaison roue de secours BFB KFB Renault Puncture emergency spare wheel puncture up to the end of the DU emergency spare wheel up to the end of the DU tyre inflation kit up to the end of the DU tyre pressure up to the end of the DU puncture tyres up to the end of the DU puncture emergency spare wheel up to the end of the DU PUNCTURE EMERGENCY SPARE WHEEL Emergency spare wheel Vehicle not fitted with a Vehicle fitted with a subwoofer subwoofer This is located in the luggage compart ment. To access it To access it open the boot open the boot lift the luggage compartment lift the luggage compartment carpet using tab or the handle carpet using tab or the handle Remove the subwoofer refit it and depending on the vehicle depending on the vehicle reconnect it in the same position unscrew the central mounting loca unscrew the central mounting loca again. Handle it carefully. If not this ted under the jack ted under the jack could impair the correct functioning of the subwoofer. remove the tool kit remove the tool kit remove the emergency spare wheel. disconnect the power cable of the subwoofer remove the subwoofer It is not recommended to replace and reconnect the subwoofer if a tyre is punc remove the emergency spare wheel. tured this may cause damage to the subwoofer ENG UD Crevaison roue de secours BFB KFB Renault PUNCTURE EMERGENCY SPARE WHEEL To refit the wheel carrier use the wheelbrace to screw fully the nut clockwise reverse move ment A A make sure you lock the wheel carrier in place refit the blanking cover then the cover. Note door version vehicle store the punctured wheel in the boot. B Emergency spare wheel under the vehicle lift then push movement B the handle to lower It is located under the vehicle. the wheel carrier on the ground To get to it pull the wheel towards you a in the luggage compartment lift the plastic guide located under the Make sure that the wheel cover from the luggage compart wheel makes it easy to move carrier is always locked ment carpet with or without the emer remove the plastic guide from the gency spare wheel inside. remove blanking cover wheel before fitting it to the vehicle. There is a risk of accidents. only use the wheel brace using a different tool could damage the mechanism to unscrew fully the nut When the emergency spare anti clockwise movement A and wheel is located underneath the wheel will lower to the ground the vehicle it is vital to take Do not touch the exhaust the emergency spare wheel system. out before lifting the vehicle. Risk of burns. Risk of injury ENG UD Crevaison roue de secours BFB KFB Renault TYRE PRESSURE KIT B Do not attempt to use the The kit is only approved for inflation kit if the tyre has inflating the tyres of the ve been damaged as a result hicle originally equipped of driving with a puncture. with the kit. A You should therefore carefully check It must never be used to inflate the condition of the tyre sidewalls the tyres of another vehicle or any before any operation. other inflatable object rubber ring rubber boat etc Driving with underinflated flat or punctured tyres can be dangerous Avoid spillage on skin when han and may make the tyre impossible dling the repair product bottle. If to repair. droplets do leak out rinse them off with plenty of water. This repair is temporary Keep the repair kit away from chil A tyre which has been punctured dren. should always be inspected and re paired where possible as soon as Do not dispose of the empty bottle The kit repairs tyres when possible by a specialist. in the countryside. Return it to your tread A has been dam approved dealer or to a recycling or aged by objects smaller When taking a tyre which has been ganisation. than mm. It cannot repair repaired using this kit to be replaced all types of puncture such as cuts you must inform the specialist. The bottle has a limited service larger than mm or cuts in tyre life which is indicated on its label. When driving vibration may be felt sidewall B. Check the expiry date. due to the presence of the repair Ensure also that the wheel rim is in product injected into the tyre. Contact an approved dealer to re good condition. place the inflation tube and repair product bottle. Do not pull out the foreign body causing the puncture if it is still in the tyre ENG UD Kit de gonflage des pneumatiques BFB KFB Renault Tyre inflation kit tyre inflation kit up to the end of the DU puncture up to the end of the DU tyre pressures up to the end of the DU tyre pressure up to the end of the DU TYRE PRESSURE KIT Engine running handbrake applied Note While the container empties approx. secs the pressure Connect the compressor hose to gauge briefly shows pressure up to the container inlet bar then the pressure drops. remove the cap from the container inflation adapter Adjust the pressure to increase unscrew the valve cap on the rele it continue inflation with the kit to vant wheel and screw on the contai reduce it press button. ner s inflation adapter disconnect any accessories pre viously connected to the vehicle s accessories sockets the end piece must be plugged in to the vehicle accessories socket press the switch to inflate the tyre to the recommended pressure. In the event of a puncture use the kit after a maximum of minutes stop located in the luggage compartment inflating and read the pressure on Before using the kit park or underneath the luggage compart pressure gauge. the vehicle at a sufficient ment floor depending on the vehicle distance from traffic switch on the hazard warning Vehicle fitted with a tyre pressure lights apply the parking brake ask monitoring system all passengers to leave the vehicle In the event of under inflation punc and keep them away from traffic. tures under inflation etc. the warning light appears on the instrument panel If the vehicle is parked on the hard shoulder you must warn other road users of your vehicle s presence with a warning triangle or with other de vices as per the legislation applying to the country you are in ENG UD Kit de gonflage des pneumatiques BFB KFB Renault tyre pressure monitor current page TYRE PRESSURE KIT Once the tyre is correctly inflated Precautions when using the remove the kit kit Slowly unscrew the inflation The kit should not be operated for more adapter to prevent any repair prod than consecutive minutes. uct from escaping and store the con tainer in plastic packaging to prevent the product from leaking. Affix the driving recommendation label located under the container to the dashboard where the driver can Nothing should be placed see it. around the driver s feet Put the kit away. as such objects may slide At the end of this initial inflation op under the pedals during eration air will still escape from the sudden braking manoeuvres and tyre. You must drive a short distance obstruct their use. in order to seal the hole. If a minimum pressure of. bar is Start immediately and drive at be not reached after minutes repair tween and mph and is not possible do not drive the ve Following repair with the kit km h in order to distribute the hicle but contact an approved dealer. do not travel further than product evenly in the tyre and after miles km. In addi driving for miles km stop and tion reduce your speed and check the pressure. under no circumstances exceed If the pressure is greater than. bar mph km h. The sticker Please be aware that a but less than the recommended which you must affix in a prominent poorly tightened or miss pressure re adjust it refer to the position on the dashboard reminds ing valve cap can make the label affixed to the edge of the driv you of this. tyres less airtight and may er s door otherwise contact an ap Depending on the country or local lead to pressure loss. proved dealer repair is not possible. legislation a tyre repaired with the Always use valve caps identical to inflation kit may need to be replaced. those fitted originally and tighten them fully ENG UD Kit de gonflage des pneumatiques BFB KFB Renault TOOLS Tool kit Tool box depending on vehicle depending on vehicle To access the tool kit raise the lug To access the tool box unlock the gage compartment carpet and or mounting s by one quarter of a turn mobile floor then remove the flap. The tool box is held in place by a strap ENG UD Outils BFB KFB Renault Tools tool kit up to the end of the DU hubcap tool up to the end of the DU jack up to the end of the DU puncture up to the end of the DU wheelbrace up to the end of the DU wheelbrace current page towing hitch up to the end of the DU TOOLS Towing hitch. Wheelbrace Locks or unlocks the wheel bolts and tow eye. Do not leave the tools un secured inside the vehicle as they may come loose under braking. After use The presence of the tools depends on Hubcap tool check that all the tools are correctly the vehicle. This tool is used to remove the wheel clipped into the tool kit then posi trims. tion it correctly in its housing risk of Jack injury. If wheel bolts are supplied in the On vehicles equipped with a tool kit Screw guide tool kit only use these bolts for the push towards the front of the vehicle For tightening loosening wheel bolts on emergency spare wheel refer to the the clip on the tool kit and remove the vehicles fitted with alloy wheels label affixed to the emergency spare jack. wheel. Fold the jack correctly before refitting it The jack is designed for wheel in its housing ensure that the wheel changing purposes only. Under no brace is correctly positioned. circumstances should it be used for carrying out repairs underneath the vehicle or to gain access to the un derside of the vehicle ENG UD Outils BFB KFB Renault HUBCAP D B C A Remove using the hubcap tool lo cated in the tool kit by connecting the hook in the recess provided next to the valve to attach the metal clip. To refit it align it with valve. Push the retaining hooks in fully starting with side A near the valve followed by B and C finishing at D opposite the valve. Note if you are using anti theft bolts Do not leave the tools un secured inside the vehicle as they may come loose under braking. After use check that all the tools are correctly clipped into the tool kit then posi tion it correctly in its housing risk of injury ENG UD Enjoliveur BFB KFB Renault Wheel trim hubcap tool up to the end of the DU trims up to the end of the DU CHANGING A WHEEL Vehicles equipped with a jack and wheelbrace If necessary remove the wheel trim. Use the wheelbrace to slacken off the wheel bolts. Position it so as to be able to push from above. Place the jack horizontally the jack head must be lined up with the sill clos est to the wheel concerned as shown by an arrow. Crank up the jack by hand at first to align the base plate which should be inclined further inwards than the jack When the emergency spare head. wheel is located underneath Switch on the hazard warn the vehicle it is vital to take Turn the wheelbrace until the wheel lifts ing lights. the emergency spare wheel off the ground. out before lifting the vehicle. Keep the vehicle away from traffic and on a level surface Risk of injury. where it will not slip. Apply the parking brake and engage a gear first or reverse or P for auto If the vehicle is parked on matic transmissions. the hard shoulder you must Ask all the passengers to leave the warn other road users of vehicle and keep them away from your vehicle s presence traffic. with a warning triangle or with other devices as per the legislation apply ing to the country you are in ENG UD Changement de roue BFB KFB Renault Changing a wheel changing a wheel up to the end of the DU puncture up to the end of the DU lifting the vehicle changing a wheel up to the end of the DU jack up to the end of the DU wheelbrace up to the end of the DU CHANGING A WHEEL Undo the bolts and take off the wheel. Vehicle fitted with a tyre pressure monitoring system Fit the emergency spare wheel onto the hub and rotate it until the mounting In the event of under inflation punc holes in the wheel coincide with those of the hub. tures under inflation etc. the warning light appears on the instrument If bolts are supplied with the emergency panel spare wheel only use these bolts for the emergency spare wheel. Tighten the bolts checking that the wheel is correctly positioned on its hub and un screw the jack. With the wheel on the ground tighten the bolts fully and have the tightness of the bolts checked and the emergency spare wheel pressure checked as soon as possible. Note door version vehicle when the Anti theft bolt emergency spare wheel is located un derneath the vehicle place the punc If you use anti theft bolts fit these tured wheel in the boot. nearest the valve wheel embel lisher may not be able to fit. If you have a puncture re place the wheel as soon as possible. A tyre which has been punc tured should always be inspected and repaired where possible by a specialist ENG UD Changement de roue BFB KFB Renault tyre pressure current page tyre pressure monitor current page TYRES The tyres are the only contact between When the tread has worn down to the the vehicle and the road so it is essen wear warning strips these strips will tial to keep them in good condition. become visible it is then necessary to replace your tyres because the tread You must make sure that your tyres rubber is now only. mm deep at con form to local road traffic regula most resulting in poor road holding tions. on wet roads. An overloaded vehicle long journeys by motorway particularly in very hot weather or continual driving on poorly surfaced minor roads will lead to more rapid tyre wear and affect safety. Maintaining the tyres The tyres must be in good condition and the tread form must have sufficient depth tyres approved by our Technical Department have tread wear indica tors which are indicators moulded into the tread at several points. Incidents which occur when driving such as striking the kerb may damage the tyres and wheel rims and could also lead to misalignment of the front or rear axle geometry. In this case have the condition of these checked by an approved dealer ENG UD Pneumatiques BFB KFB Renault Tyres tyre and wheel safety use in winter tyres up to the end of the DU wheels safety up to the end of the DU TYRES Tyre pressures The pressures should be checked cold Vehicle fitted with a tyre pressure ignore higher pressures which may be monitoring system Adhere to the tyre pressures including reached in hot weather or following a the emergency spare wheel. The tyre In the event of under inflation punc high speed journey. pressures should be checked at least once a month and additionally before If the tyre pressures cannot be checked tures under inflation etc. the any long journey refer to the label af when the tyres are cold increase the warning light appears on the instrument fixed to the edge of the driver s door. pressures from. to. bar or PSI. panel Never deflate a hot tyre. Emergency spare wheel Special note Depending on the vehicle there may be an adapter which needs to be posi tioned on the valve before air is added. Changing wheels around Incorrect tyre pressures This practice is not recommended. lead to abnormal tyre wear and unusually hot running. These are factors which may seriously affect safety and lead to poor road holding risk of bursting or tread separa tion. Please be aware that a The pressure depends on the load poorly tightened or miss and the speed of use. Adjust the ing valve cap can make the pressure according to the condi tyres less airtight and lead tions of use refer to the label affixed to pressure loss. to the edge of the driver s door. Always use valve caps identical to those fitted originally and tighten them fully ENG UD Pneumatiques BFB KFB Renault tyre pressure current page tyre pressure monitor current page emergency spare wheel current page TYRES Fitting new tyres Use in winter Studded tyres Snow or Winter tyres This type of equipment may only be used for a limited period and as laid We would recommend that these be down by local legislation. It is neces fitted to all four wheels to ensure that For your safety please re sary to observe the speed specified by your vehicle retains maximum adhe spect the speed limit. current legislation. sion. Warning These tyres sometimes These tyres must at a minimum be When they need to be re have a specific direction of rotation and fitted to the two front wheels. placed only tyres of the a maximum speed index which may be same make size type and profile lower than the maximum speed of your Chains should be used on a single axle. vehicle. For safety reasons fitting snow They must either have a load ca chains to the rear axle is strictly for pacity and a speed capacity at bidden. least equal to the original tyres Chains cannot be fitted to tyres which or correspond to those recom are larger than those originally fitted to mended by your authorised Snow chains may only be the vehicle. dealer. fitted to tyres of the same size as those originally Failure to heed these instructions fitted to your vehicle. could endanger your safety and affect your vehicle s roadworthi ness. Risk of loss of control of the ve hicle. wheels and larger cannot be fitted with Changing a wheel chains. As the tyre pressure moni tor may take several min If you wish to use special utes to correctly determine equipment please consult an au the positions of the wheels and the thorised dealer. pressure values after driving check the tyre pressures following any op eration. In all cases we would recommend that you contact an authorised dealer who will be able to advise you on the choice of equipment which is most suitable for your vehicle ENG UD Pneumatiques BFB KFB Renault tyres snow tyres current page tyres replacement current page replacement tyres current page tyres studded tyres current page tyres chains current page changing a wheel current page FRONT HEADLIGHTS replacing the bulbs Front fog lights Please see an authorised dealer. Any operation on or modi fication to the electrical Additional lights system must be performed If you wish to fit fog lights to your ve by an approved dealer hicle please see an authorised dealer. since an incorrect connection might damage the electrical equipment harness components and in par ticular the alternator. In addition your Dealer has all the parts re quired for fitting these units. Vehicles with LED headlights The bulbs are under pres Daytime running lights side lights sure and can break when direction indicators replaced. Please see an authorised dealer. Risk of injury. Main beam headlights Please note when work Please see an authorised dealer. ing close to the engine that it may be hot. In addition Dipped beam headlights the engine cooling fa n may Please see an authorised dealer. start at any moment. The warning light in the engine compart ment reminds you of this. Risk of injury ENG UD Projecteur avant remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault Headlights changing bulbs bulbs up to the end of the DU changing lights up to the end of the DU changing bulbs changing a bulb up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU lights lights fog lights dipped beam headlights up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU indicators lights up to the end of the DU direction indicators up to the end of the DU lights side lights up to the end of the DU lights main beam headlights up to the end of the DU bulbs changing up to the end of the DU lights front FRONT HEADLIGHTS replacing the bulbs A B Vehicles with Halogen Halogen main beam headlight Front fog lights headlights To change the bulb Access the bulb holder via the un derneath of the vehicle open the bonnet Daytime running lights side lights remove cover A unclip the access flap direction indicators pull the bulb holder turn the bulb holder a quarter turn Please see an authorised dealer. remove the bulb. remove the bulb. Type of bulb H. Halogen dipped beam headlight Type of bulbs and H. Once the bulb has been replaced To change the bulb It is essential to use anti U.V. W check that it is properly secured. open the bonnet bulbs so as not to damage the plastic remove cover B on the headlights. Turn the bulb holder a quarter Do not touch the bulb glass. Hold it turn by its base. remove the bulb. When the bulb has been changed To comply with local legislation or make sure you refit the cover correctly. as a precaution you can obtain an emergency kit containing a set of spare bulbs and fuses from an ap proved dealer ENG UD Projecteur avant remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault REAR LIGHTS AND SIDE LIGHTS replacing the bulbs Rear fog lights or The front bumper needs to be removed consult an authorised dealer. Bulb type P W. door version Direction indicators Consult an approved dealer. Brake side lights Consult an approved dealer High level brake light Consult an approved dealer. Side lights Consult an approved dealer. Reversing light Consult an approved dealer. The bulbs are under pres sure and can break when replaced. Risk of injury ENG UD Feux arri re et lat raux remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault Rear lights and side lights replacing bulbs bulbs lights changing number plate lights up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU changing a bulb lights up to the end of the DU reversing lights indicators up to the end of the DU up to the end of the DU indicator lights lights up to the end of the DU brake lights up to the end of the DU bulbs changing up to the end of the DU lights direction indicators up to the end of the DU lights side lights up to the end of the DU lights fog lights up to the end of the DU REAR LIGHTS AND SIDE LIGHTS replacing the bulbs Number plate lights Side repeaters and welcome lighting Consult an approved dealer. The wing mirror needs to be removed consult an authorised dealer ENG UD Feux arri re et lat raux remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault REAR LIGHTS AND SIDE LIGHTS replacing the bulbs Rear fog lights or The front bumper needs to be removed consult an authorised dealer. Bulb type P W. Estate version Direction indicators Consult an approved dealer. Brake side lights Consult an approved dealer High level brake light Consult an approved dealer. Side lights Consult an approved dealer. Reversing light Consult an approved dealer. The bulbs are under pres sure and can break when replaced. Risk of injury ENG UD Feux arri re et lat raux remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault REAR LIGHTS AND SIDE LIGHTS replacing the bulbs Number plate lights Side repeaters and welcome lighting Consult an approved dealer. The wing mirror needs to be removed consult an authorised dealer ENG UD Feux arri re et lat raux remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault REAR LIGHTS AND SIDE LIGHTS replacing the bulbs door version Access to the bulb holders and Brake light Open the boot remove the cover to Turn bulb holder a quarter of a turn Side light access the screw and undo it. and take out the bulb. Consult an approved dealer. Remove the rear lights unit. Bulb type P W. Refit the bulb holder and push the unit Direction indicator light in fully until it locks in place. Turn bulb holder a quarter of a turn and take out the bulb. Check that the light is properly locked in position. Bulb type PY W. Tighten the screw and reposition the cover ENG UD Feux arri re et lat raux remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault REAR LIGHTS AND SIDE LIGHTS replacing the bulbs Reversing light Turn bulb holder a quarter of a turn High level brake light and take out the bulb. From the boot unclip the cover on the Consult an approved dealer. interior trim of the boot lid using a Bulb type W W. screwdriver or similar tool. Refitting Rear fog lights To refit proceed in the reverse order The front bumper needs to be removed taking care not to damage the wiring. consult an authorised dealer. Bulb type P W. The bulbs are under pres sure and can break when replaced. Risk of injury ENG UD Feux arri re et lat raux remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault REAR LIGHTS AND SIDE LIGHTS replacing the bulbs Number plate lights with LED number plate lights Side repeaters and conventional bulbs depending on vehicle welcome lighting depending on vehicle Consult an approved dealer The wing mirror needs to be removed Unclip the light using a tool such consult an authorised dealer. as a flat blade screwdriver remove the light cover to gain access to the bulb. Bulb type W W. The bulbs are under pres sure and can break when replaced. Risk of injury ENG UD Feux arri re et lat raux remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault INTERIOR LIGHTING changing bulbs Ambient lighting Please consult an authorised dealer. Map reading lights Courtesy light Please consult an authorised dealer. Please consult an authorised dealer ENG UD Eclairage int rieur remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault interior lighting changing bulbs bulbs up to the end of the DU changing up to the end of the DU changing a bulb up to the end of the DU lighting interior up to the end of the DU bulbs changing up to the end of the DU courtesy light up to the end of the DU map reading lights up to the end of the DU interior lighting changing bulbs up to the end of the DU courtesy mirrors up to the end of the DU luggage compartment lighting changing bulbs INTERIOR LIGHTING changing bulbs Glove box light Luggage compartment light four door version Please consult an authorised dealer. Unclip the light by pressing the tab with a flat blade screwdriver or similar. Disconnect the light. Remove the bonnet Access the bulb. Bulb type W W. The bulbs are under pressure and can break when replaced. Risk of injury ENG UD Eclairage int rieur remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault INTERIOR LIGHTING changing bulbs Luggage compartment light five seater and estate versions Unclip the light by pressing the tab with a flat blade screwdriver or similar. Disconnect the light. Access the bulb. Bulb type W W. The bulbs are under pres sure and can break when replaced. Risk of injury ENG UD Eclairage int rieur remplacement des lampes BFB KFB Renault FUSES Use the fuse allocation label on the back of flap A to identify the fuses. Certain fuses should only be replaced by a qualified professional. These fuses are not listed on the label. Only change the fuses represented on the label. A Fuse box Tweezers If any electrical component does not Remove the fuse using tweezers lo work check the condition of the fuses. cated at the back of flap A. Unclip the access flap A. To remove the fuse from the tweezers Check the fuse in question slide the fuse to the side. and replace it if neces It is not advisable to use the free fuse sary by a fuse of the same locations. rating. If a fuse is fitted where the rating is too high it may cause the electrical circuit to overheat risk of fire in the event of an item of equipment using In accordance with local legislation an excessive amount of current. or as a precautionary measure obtain an emergency kit containing a set of spare bulbs and fuses from an approved Dealer ENG UD Fusibles BFB KFB Renault Fuses fuses up to the end of the DU FUSES Allocation of fuses the presence of certain fuses depends on the vehicle equipment level Symbol Allocation H Windscreen washer Multimedia accessories socket multimedia screen Front and rear second row accessories socket Horn Towbar socket Heated rear view mirrors Brake lights passenger compartment central unit Passenger compartment centre unit rear wiper rear fog light Direction indicator lights hazard warning lights D high level brake lights Luggage compartment Third row accessories socket Electric window not one touch. ENG UD Fusibles BFB KFB Renault BATTERY troubleshooting To avoid all risk of sparks Connecting a battery charger Ensure that any consumers cour The battery charger must be com Before carrying out any tesy lights etc. are switched off patible with a battery with nominal action in the engine com before disconnecting or reconnect voltage of volts. partment you must switch ing the battery Do not disconnect the battery when the off the ignition when charging stop the charger engine is running. Follow the instruc before connecting or disconnecting tions given by the manufacturer of the battery the battery charger you are using. to avoid creating a short circuit be Handle the battery with care tween the terminals do not place as it contains sulphuric acid metal objects on the battery which must not come into contact with eyes or skin. If always wait at least one minute after it does wash the affected area with the engine has been switched off plenty of cold water. If necessary before disconnecting a battery consult a doctor. make sure that you reconnect the Keep naked flames red hot objects battery terminals after refitting. and sparks away from the battery components as there is a risk of explosion. Special procedures may be Please note when working close to required to charge some the engine that it may be hot. The batteries. Contact your au engine cooling fan may also start at thorised dealer. Avoid all risk of sparks which may any moment. The label in the cause an immediate explosion and engine compartment reminds you of charge the battery in a well venti this. lated area. Risk of injury. Risk of serious injury ENG UD Batterie d pannage BFB KFB Renault Battery battery troubleshooting up to the end of the DU battery up to the end of the DU BATTERY troubleshooting Starting the vehicle using the battery from another vehicle If you have to use the battery from an other vehicle to start obtain suitable jump leads with a large cross section from an approved dealer or if you al ready have jump leads ensure that B they are in perfect condition. The two batteries must have an iden tical nominal voltage of volts. The A battery supplying the current should have a capacity amp hours Ah which is at least the same as that of the dis charged battery. Ensure that there is no risk of contact Lift the red cover on box located Start the engine and as soon as it starts between the two vehicles risk of short behind the battery. running disconnect cables A and B in circuiting when the positive terminals reverse order. are connected and that the discharged Connect the positive cable A to sup battery is properly connected. Switch port located under the box off your vehicle ignition. cover then to terminal of the battery supplying the current. Start the engine of the vehicle supply ing the current and run it at a moderate Connect the negative cable B to termi speed. nal of the battery supplying the Check that there is no con current then to the metal cable tact between leads A and B of the discharged battery. and that the positive lead A is not touching any metal parts on the vehicle supplying the current. Risk of injury and or damage to the vehicle ENG UD Batterie d pannage BFB KFB Renault CARD battery A The batteries are available from ap proved Dealers and their service life approximately two years. Check that there is no dye on the battery risk of an incorrect electrical con tact. Replacing the battery When refitting proceed in the reverse order then press one of the buttons on If they need to be replaced When the message Keycard Battery the card four times close to the vehicle be sure to use the same Low appears on the instrument panel the message will disappear. or equivalent type of bat replace the battery in the card tery consult an Approved Check that the cover is clipped shut. slide the rear casing downwards Dealer. while pressing on zone A Note Do not touch the electronic circuit or contacts on the card when replacing remove the battery cover the battery. remove the battery by pressing on one side and lifting the other When replacing replace it according to the direc make sure that the batter tion and template shown inside the ies are correctly inserted. cover. There is a risk of explo sion. if the flap does not close cor rectly do not use and keep out of reach of children ENG UD Carte RENAULT pile BFB KFB Renault Card battery card battery up to the end of the DU hands free card battery up to the end of the DU batteries up to the end of the DU keys replacing the battery up to the end of the DU map battery up to the end of the DU CARD battery Operating faults If the battery is too weak to ensure cor rect operation you will still be able to start and lock unlock the vehicle Precautions relating to batteries keep new or used batter ies out of reach of children not to swallow the batteries. Risk of chemical burns which may led to death. if ingested or inserted into any part of the body consult a doctor as soon as possible. Do not throw away your used bat teries give them to an organisation responsible for collecting and recy cling batteries ENG UD Carte RENAULT pile BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page RADIO FREQUENCY REMOTE CONTROL batteries Replacing the battery Note It is not advisable to touch the electronic circuit in the key cover when Open the case at slot using a flat replacing the battery. blade screwdriver or similar and re place the battery observing the po When refitting ensure that the cover is larity shown on the back of the cover. correctly clipped on and the screw tight ened. If they need to be replaced The batteries are available from ap be sure to use the same proved Dealers and their service or equivalent type of bat life approximately two years. tery consult an Approved Check that there is no dye on the Dealer. battery risk of an incorrect electri cal contact ENG UD T l commande radiofr quence piles BFB KFB Renault Radio frequency remote control batteries remote control door locking batteries up to the end of the DU radio frequency remote control key battery up to the end of the DU keys replacing the battery up to the end of the DU remote control batteries up to the end of the DU battery remote control up to the end of the DU battery remote control up to the end of the DU RADIO FREQUENCY REMOTE CONTROL batteries Operating faults If the battery is too weak to ensure cor rect operation you will still be able to start and lock unlock the vehicle Precautions relating Do not throw away your used bat to batteries teries give them to an organisation responsible for collecting and recy keep new or used bat cling batteries. teries out of reach of children not to swallow the batteries. Risk of chemical burns which When replacing may cause death make sure that the batter if ingested or inserted into any ies are correctly inserted. part of the body consult a doctor Risk of explosion. as soon as possible. if the flap does not close cor rectly do not use and keep out of reach of children ENG UD T l commande radiofr quence piles BFB KFB Renault operating faults current page faults operating faults current page ACCESSORIES Electrical and electronic accessories Before installing this type of accessory particularly for transmitters receivers frequency bandwidth power level po sition of the aerial etc. make sure it is compatible with your vehicle. You can get advice from an authorised dealer. Connect accessories with a maximum power of Watts only. Fire hazard. When several accessory sockets are used at the same time the total power of the connected accessories must not exceed watts. No work may be carried out on the vehicle s electrical or radio circuits except by authorised dealers an incorrectly connected system may result in damage being caused to the electrical equipment and or the components connected to it. If the vehicle is fitted with any aftermarket electrical equipment make sure that the installation is correctly protected by a fuse. Establish the rating and position of this fuse. Using the diagnostic socket The use of electronic accessories on the diagnostic socket may cause serious disturbance to the vehicle s electronic systems. For your safety we recommend that you use only electronic accessories approved by the manufacturer consult an Approved Dealer. Serious accident risk. Use of transmitting receiving devices telephones CB equipment etc Telephones and CB equipment with integrated aerials may cause interference to the electronic systems originally fitted to the vehicle it is advisable only to use equipment with an external aerial. Furthermore we remind you of the need to conform to the legislation in force concerning the use of such equipment. Fitting aftermarket accessories If you wish to install accessories on the vehicle please contact an authorised dealer. Also to ensure the correct operation of your vehicle and to avoid any risk to your safety we recommend that you use only accessories specifically designed for your vehicle which are the only accessories for which the manufacturer will provide a warranty. If you are using an anti theft device only attach it to the brake pedal. Obstructions to the driver On the driver s side only use mats suitable for the vehicle attached with the pre fitted components and check the fitting regu larly. Do not lay one mat on top of another. There is a risk of wedging the pedals ENG UD Accessoires JFC BFB Renault Accessories accessories up to the end of the DU WIPER BLADES REPLACEMENT A Replacing windscreen wiper In frosty weather make blades sure that the wiper blades With the ignition on and engine are not stuck by ice to switched off lower the windscreen avoid the risk of the motor wiper stalk completely they stop overheating. slightly away from the bonnet. Check the condition of the wiper Lift wiper arm pull tab move Check the condition of the wiper blades. ment A and push the blade upwards. blades. You are responsible for their Replace the wiper blades as soon service life as they begin to lose efficiency To refit clean the blades windscreen and approximately once a year. Slide the blade along the arm until it rear screen regularly with soapy clips on. Make sure that the blade is water Whilst changing the blade take care correctly locked in position. Return the do not use them when the wind not to drop the arm onto the window windscreen wiper stalk to the park po screen or rear screen are dry after it has been removed as this sition. free them from the windscreen or may break the window. rear screen when they have not been used for a long time ENG UD Balais d essuie vitres remplacement BFB Renault Wipers replacing blades wiper blades up to the end of the DU wipers blades up to the end of the DU WIPER BLADES REPLACEMENT To refit To refit the wiper blade proceed in re B verse order to removal. Make sure that the blade is correctly locked in position. C Rear screen wiper blade Stalk in stop position deactivated Lift wiper arm pivot blade until some resistance is met movement C depending on the vehicle press tab then remove the blade by pull ing it movement B. Before changing the rear wiper blade make sure the stalk is in the stop position deactivated. Risk of injury ENG UD Balais d essuie vitres remplacement BFB Renault TOWING breakdown recovery Before towing put the gearbox in neu The speed specified by current legis tral unlock the steering column and re lation for towing must always be ob lease the parking brake. served. If you are driving the towing For vehicles fitted with an automatic vehicle do not exceed the permissible gearbox if it is not possible to put the towing weight for your vehicle gear lever into position N please con sult an authorised dealer. Towing a vehicle with an Steering column unlocking automatic gearbox Insert the key into the ignition or press Transport the vehicle on a trailer or tow the engine start button for two sec it with the front wheels off the ground. onds with the card on you depending In exceptional circumstances you on the vehicle. may tow it with all four wheels on the Reposition the lever to neutral posi ground only in a forward gear with the tion N for vehicles fitted with an auto gear in neutral position N over a maxi matic gearbox. mum distance of miles and not ex The column is unlocked the acces If the lever is stuck in P even though ceeding a speed of mph km h. sory functions are supplied the vehi you are depressing the brake pedal the cle lights can be used indicators brake lever can be released manually. lights etc At night the vehicle must To do this unclip the base of the lever have its lights on. then insert a tool with a hard rod to it Depending on the vehicle once you into the slot and press the button have finished towing press the engine at the same time in order to unlock the start button twice risk of running down lever. the battery. Contact an authorised dealer as soon as possible. Do not remove the key from the ignition switch or leave the card in the vehi cle during towing depend ing on the vehicle. When the engine is Risk of the steering column lock stopped steering and brak ing. ing assistance are no longer provided ENG UD Remorquage d pannage BFB KFB Renault Towing breakdown towing hitch up to the end of the DU towing breakdown up to the end of the DU towing up to the end of the DU breakdown recovery up to the end of the DU TOWING breakdown recovery Use only the towing eye D B A C Ensure that the towing eye is bolted correctly. Risk of losing the towed object. Only use the front and rear towing Access to towing points Use a rigid towing bar. points Front towing point If a rope or cable is used never use the drive shafts or any other Press zone A and keep depressed where the law allows this part of the vehicle while pulling zone B to open flap. the vehicle being towed These towing points may only be used must be able to brake. Rear towing point for towing never use them for lifting the Press zone C and keep depressed A vehicle must not be towed if it is vehicle directly or indirectly. while pulling zone D to open flap. not fit to be driven. Screw in the tow eye by hand as far Avoid accelerating or braking as possible. suddenly when towing as this may result in damage being caused to the vehicle. When towing a vehicle it is ad visable not to exceed mph Do not leave the tools unse km h. cured inside the vehicle as they may come loose under braking ENG UD Remorquage d pannage BFB KFB Renault OPERATING FAULTS The following advice will enable you to carry out quick temporary repairs. For safety reasons you should always contact an approved Dealer as soon as possible. Using the card POSSIBLE CAUSES WHAT TO DO The card does not lock or unlock the Card battery is flat. Replace the battery or have it replaced. doors. You will still be able to lock unlock and start your vehicle and. or Use of appliances operating on the Stop using the devices or use the key pro same frequency as the card mobile vided phone etc Vehicle located in a high electromag Use the key that is built into the card netic radiation zone Vehicle battery flat. The vehicle is started. With the engine running the card s locking unlocking device is blocked. Turn off the ig nition ENG UD Anomalies de fonctionnement BFB KFB Renault Operating faults operating faults up to the end of the DU faults operating faults up to the end of the DU OPERATING FAULTS The following advice will enable you to carry out quick temporary repairs. For safety reasons you should always contact an approved dealer as soon as possible. Using the remote control POSSIBLE CAUSES ACTION REQUIRED The remote control does not lock or The remote control battery is flat. Use the emergency key. unlock the doors. Use of appliances operating on the same Stop using the devices or use the key. frequency as the remote control mobile phone etc Vehicle located in a high electromagnetic Replace the battery or have it replaced. radiation zone. You will still be able to lock unlock and Discharged battery. start your vehicle and. or The vehicle is started. With the engine running the key s locking unlocking device is blocked. Turn off the ignition ENG UD Anomalies de fonctionnement BFB KFB Renault OPERATING FAULTS The starter is activated POSSIBLE CAUSES WHAT TO DO The instrument panel indicator lights are Battery terminals not tight Retighten or reconnect the terminals or clean them if weak or fail to light up and the starter battery terminals discon they are oxidised. does not turn. nected or oxidised. Discharged battery or not Connect another battery to the faulty battery or operational. replace the battery if necessary. Do not push the vehicle if the steering column is locked. Faulty circuit. Consult an approved dealer. The engine will not start. Starting conditions are not. or fulfilled. The card does not work or With the vehicle stationary engine Petrol version this is not The engine s idle speed should decrease after about cold the engine s idle speed is high. necessarily a fault. This may one minute. Otherwise this may be caused by an be caused by the increase in other fault. Call an approved Dealer. the engine temperature. The engine cannot be switched off. Card not detected or Electronic fault. Press the starter button quickly five times. The steering column remains locked. Steering wheel locked. Move the steering wheel whilst pressing the engine start button or depending on the vehicle operating the ignition key Faulty circuit. Consult an approved dealer ENG UD Anomalies de fonctionnement BFB KFB Renault OPERATING FAULTS On the road POSSIBLE CAUSES WHAT TO DO Vibrations. Tyres not inflated to correct pres Check the tyre pressures if this is not the sures incorrectly balanced or dam problem have them checked by an ap aged. proved Dealer. White smoke from the exhaust. In the diesel version this is necessar ily a fault. Smoke may be caused by particle filter regeneration. Smoke under the bonnet. Short circuit or cooling system leak. Stop switch off the ignition stand away from the vehicle and contact an approved dealer. The oil pressure warning light comes on while cornering or braking The level is too low. Top up the engine oil is slow to go out or remains lit up Loss of oil pressure. Stop the vehicle and contact an approved under acceleration. Dealer ENG UD Anomalies de fonctionnement BFB KFB Renault OPERATING FAULTS On the road POSSIBLE CAUSES WHAT TO DO Steering becomes heavy. Assistance overheating. Drive carefully at reduced speed be aware of the level of force in the steering wheel Fault with the electric assistance needed to turn the wheels. Consult an ap motor. proved dealer Fault in the assistance system. The engine is overheating. The cool Engine cooling fan not working. Stop the vehicle switch off the engine and ant temperature indicator is in the contact an approved dealer. warning zone and warning light comes on. Coolant leaks. Check the coolant reservoir it should con tain fluid. If there is no coolant consult an approved dealer as soon as possible. Coolant boiling in the coolant reser Mechanical fault damaged cylinder Stop the engine. voir. head gasket. Contact an approved dealer. Radiator If there is a significant lack of coolant remember that it must never be topped up using cold coolant while the engine is very warm. After any procedure on the vehicle which has involved even partial draining of the cooling system it must be refilled with a new mixture prepared in the correct proportions. Reminder only products approved by our Technical Department may be used for this purpose ENG UD Anomalies de fonctionnement BFB KFB Renault OPERATING FAULTS Electrical equipment POSSIBLE CAUSES WHAT TO DO The wipers do not work. Wiper blades stuck. Free the blades before using the wipers. Faulty electrical circuit. Consult an approved dealer. Fuse damaged. Replace the fuse or have it replaced The wiper does not stop. Faulty electrical controls. Consult an approved dealer. Direction indicators flashing more Blown bulb or quickly. The direction indicators do not work. Faulty electrical circuit or control. Consult an approved dealer. Fuse damaged. Replace the fuse or have it replaced The lights do not come on or go off. Faulty electrical circuit or control. Consult an approved dealer. Fuse damaged. Replace the fuse or have it replaced ENG UD Anomalies de fonctionnement BFB KFB Renault OPERATING FAULTS Electrical equipment POSSIBLE CAUSES WHAT TO DO Traces of condensation in the lights Traces of condensation may be a nat and headlights. ural phenomenon caused by varia tions in temperature and humidity. In this case the traces will disappear slowly once the lights are switched on. The front seat belt reminder light An object is stuck between the floor Remove all objects from underneath the comes on when the seat belts are and the seat and is disrupting the op front seats. fastened. eration of the sensor ENG UD Anomalies de fonctionnement BFB KFB Renault. ENG UD Filler NU BFB Renault Section Technical specifications Vehicle identification plates Engine identification plates Dimensions Engine specifications Weights Towing weights Replacement parts and repairs Service sheets Anticorrosion check ENG UD Sommaire BFB KFB Renault VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION PLATES A A The information shown on the ve MMAC Maximum permissible hicle identification plate should be all up weight. quoted on all correspondence or MTR Gross train weight vehicle orders. fully loaded with trailer. MMTA Maximum Permissible The presence and location of the in Weight front axle. formation depends on the vehicle. MMTA rear axle. Vehicle identification plate A Reserved for related or additional Manufacturer name. entries. EC design number or approval Not used. number. Paint reference colour code. B Identification number. Depending on the vehicle this information is also given on marking B ENG UD Plaques d identification v hicule BFB KFB Renault Vehicle identification plates vehicle identification plates up to the end of the DU ENGINE IDENTIFICATION PLATES A A A Please quote the information on the engine plate or label A in all corre spondence or orders. Location varies depending on engine Engine type. Engine suffix. Engine number. A A. ENG UD Plaques d identification moteur BFB KFB Renault Engine identification plates vehicle identification plates up to the end of the DU engine specifications up to the end of the DU ENGINE IDENTIFICATION PLATES A A Please quote the information on the engine plate or label A in all corre spondence or orders. Location varies depending on engine Engine type. Engine suffix. Engine number ENG UD Plaques d identification moteur BFB KFB Renault DIMENSIONS in metres Five door version to to Unladen. ENG UD Dimensions en m tre BFB KFB Renault Dimensions dimensions up to the end of the DU technical specifications up to the end of the DU DIMENSIONS in metres Estate versions to to Unladen. ENG UD Dimensions en m tre BFB KFB Renault DIMENSIONS in metres Four door version to to Unladen. ENG UD Dimensions en m tre BFB KFB Renault ENGINE SPECIFICATIONS Versions. TCe. TCe. V. TCe. dCi Engine type H D Turbo H H Turbo H M M P Turbo K K see engine plate Cubic capacity cc Type of fuel Petrol Diesel Octane rating You must use unleaded petrol with the octane rating stated on the The label located in the fuel filler label inside the fuel filler flap flap indicates the authorised fuels ENG UD Caract ristiques moteurs BFB KFB Renault Engine specifications engine technical specifications up to the end of the DU technical specifications up to the end of the DU engine specifications up to the end of the DU ENGINE SPECIFICATIONS Versions. TCe. TCe. V. TCe. dCi Engine type H D Turbo H H Turbo H M M P Turbo K K see engine plate Cubic capacity cc Fuel types that meet Unleaded petrol compliant with stand Diesel fuel compliant with European standards ard EN contains up to ethanol in standard EN contains up and are compatible volume. to fatty acid methyl ester with the engines of ve in volume. hicles sold in Europe in any other case contact an Approved Dealer. Unleaded petrol compliant with standard Diesel fuel compliant with EN contains up to ethanol in standard EN contains volume. up to fatty acid methyl ester in volume. Diesel fuel compliant with standard EN contains up to acid methyl ester in volume ENG UD Caract ristiques moteurs BFB KFB Renault ENGINE SPECIFICATIONS Versions. TCe. TCe. V. TCe. dCi Engine type H D Turbo H H Turbo H M M P Turbo K K see engine plate Cubic capacity cc Spark plugs Only use the spark plugs specified for your vehicle s engine. The type should be marked on a label affixed inside the engine compartment. If it is not then contact an approved Dealer. Fitting spark plugs which are not to specification may damage the engine ENG UD Caract ristiques moteurs BFB KFB Renault WEIGHTS in kg The weights indicated are for a basic vehicle without options they may vary depending on your vehicle s equipment. Consult an approved Dealer. Five door Estate Four door Maximum permissible all up weight MMAC Maximum permissible all up weight MMTA Weights indicated on the vehicle identification plate. Gross Train Weight MTR Braked Trailer Weight found by calculating MTR MMAC Unbraked Trailer Weight Permissible nose weight Maximum permissible load on roof kg including the carrying device Towing weight Towing a caravan boat etc. Towing is prohibited when the MTR MMAC calculation is equal to zero or when the MTR is equal to zero or is not listed on the identification plate. It is important to comply with the towing weights governed by local legislation in each country and in particular laid down in the Road Traffic Regulations. Contact an approved Dealer about any towing equipment. When towing under no circumstances may the total train weight vehicle trailer be exceeded. However the following is permitted rear axle MMTA exceeded by no more than maximum MMAC exceeded by no more than or kg whichever is reached first. In either case the maximum speed of the towing assembly must not exceed mph km h and the tyre pressure must be increased by. bar PSI. The engine output and climbing capability are reduced with altitude. We recommend that the maximum load be reduced by at an altitude of metres and by an additional for each metres thereafter ENG UD Masses en Kg BFB KFB Renault Weights Towing weights technical specifications up to the end of the DU towing a caravan up to the end of the DU load permitted on the roof up to the end of the DU towing weights up to the end of the DU weights up to the end of the DU transporting objects on the roof up to the end of the DU REPLACEMENT PARTS AND REPAIRS Original parts are based on strict specifications and are subject to highly specialised tests. Therefore they are of at least the same level of quality as the parts fitted originally. If you always fit genuine replacement parts to your vehicle you will ensure that it performs well. Furthermore repairs carried out within the manufacturer s Network using original parts are guaranteed according to the conditions set out on the reverse of the repair order ENG UD Pi ces de rechange et r parations BFB KFB Renault Replacement parts and repairs technical specifications up to the end of the DU replacement parts up to the end of the DU SERVICE SHEETS VIN Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page. ENG UD Justificatif d entretien BFB KFB Renault Service sheets service sheets up to the end of the DU maintenance mechanical up to the end of the DU SERVICE SHEETS VIN Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page. ENG UD Justificatif d entretien BFB KFB Renault SERVICE SHEETS VIN Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page. ENG UD Justificatif d entretien BFB KFB Renault SERVICE SHEETS VIN Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page. ENG UD Justificatif d entretien BFB KFB Renault SERVICE SHEETS VIN Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page. ENG UD Justificatif d entretien BFB KFB Renault SERVICE SHEETS VIN Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page Date Miles Km Invoice number Comments miscellaneous Type of operation Stamp Service Anti corrosion check OK Not OK See specific page. ENG UD Justificatif d entretien BFB KFB Renault ANTICORROSION CHECK If the continuation of the warranty is subject to repair it is indicated below. VIN Corrosion repair operation to be carried Stamp out Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair. ENG UD Contr le anticorrosion X BFB KFB Renault Anticorrosion check anti corrosion check up to the end of the DU ANTICORROSION CHECK If the continuation of the warranty is subject to repair it is indicated below. VIN Corrosion repair operation to be carried Stamp out Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair. ENG UD Contr le anticorrosion X BFB KFB Renault ANTICORROSION CHECK If the continuation of the warranty is subject to repair it is indicated below. VIN Corrosion repair operation to be carried Stamp out Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair. ENG UD Contr le anticorrosion X BFB KFB Renault ANTICORROSION CHECK If the continuation of the warranty is subject to repair it is indicated below. VIN Corrosion repair operation to be carried Stamp out Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair. ENG UD Contr le anticorrosion X BFB KFB Renault ANTICORROSION CHECK If the continuation of the warranty is subject to repair it is indicated below. VIN Corrosion repair operation to be carried Stamp out Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair. ENG UD Contr le anticorrosion X BFB KFB Renault ANTICORROSION CHECK If the continuation of the warranty is subject to repair it is indicated below. VIN Corrosion repair operation to be carried Stamp out Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair Repair to be carried out Stamp Date of repair. ENG UD Contr le anticorrosion X BFB KFB Renault ALPHABETICAL INDEX A audible and visual signals. ABS AUTO mode access Autohold. vehicle automatic gearbox use accessories automatic gearbox selector lever accessories socket automatic locking of the doors while driving. adaptive cruise control AdBlue B additional methods of restraint batteries side protection. battery to the front seat belts breakdown recovery to the rear seat belts. maintenance additional methods of restraint replacement additional tank capacity battery additive reagent battery remote control adjusting your driving position beep blind spot warning signal advice on antipollution blind spot warning signal air bag bonnet activating the front passenger air bags brake. air bag brake fluid air conditioning brakes air vents brake fluid level. airbag electronic parking brake. front passenger airbag deactivation breakdown recovery airbags bulbs anti corrosion check changing anti corrosion protection. anti lock braking system ABS C card battery antipollution catalytic converter advice central door locking armrest changing a bulb front. changing a wheel rear. changing gear ashtray child restraint seat assisted parking FRA UD Index BFB KFB Renault ALPHABETICAL INDEX child safety rear window windscreen child seats demisting children rear screen children safety windscreen cigar lighter deodourisation. cleaning diesel inside the vehicle special features of diesel versions. clock diesel. setting dimensions clock dipstick. closing the doors display configuration menu doors control instruments doors tailgate controls driver assistance doors opening elements driver s position steering wheel control. driving controls coolant driving aids courtesy light adaptive cruise control courtesy mirrors driving aids cruise control driving position cruise control speed limiter settings customised vehicle settings driving recommendations customising the vehicle settings E D ECO driving dashboard ECO mode daytime running lights electric beam height adjustment. deadlocking the doors electric windows deflector electronic parking brake luggage net Electronic Stability Control ESC de icing electronic stability control ESC rear screen emergency active braking de icing de misting emergency brake assist rear view mirrors emergency braking FRA UD Index BFB KFB Renault ALPHABETICAL INDEX emergency call fittings emergency key freewheel emergency spare wheel front passenger air bag deactivation engine front seat technical specifications driver s position memory. engine coolant front seat adjustment engine oil front seats engine oil capacity adjustment engine oil grade with electric controls. engine oil level fuel engine specifications advice on fuel engine standby capacity. engine start stop button consumption environment. filling equipment quality fitting. fuel consumption equipment. fuel economy ESC electronic stability control fuel filler cap exhaust. fuel level exterior air quality. fuel repriming external temperature fuel tank capacity F fuel tank capacity fatigue detection warning fuses faults operating faults G gear lever grab handle. file filling with reagent H filter handbrake air filter. handsfree diesel filter hands free card battery oil filter hands free telephone integrated control particle filter hazard warning lights signal. passenger compartment filter. headlight beam adjustment FRA UD Index BFB KFB Renault ALPHABETICAL INDEX headlight flashers. instrument panel messages headlight washer headrest interior lighting head up display changing bulbs heated seats interior trim heated steering wheel. maintenance heated windscreen Isofix heating and air conditioning system heating system J Hill Start Assist jack hooks bag hooks K keys for towing replacing the battery horn. keys horn flash. L sounding the horn. lane departure warning hubcap tool Lane Keeping Assist lane keeping assistance I level information ignition switch fuel. indicator lights levels indicators levels driving style brake fluid. exterior temperature. coolant. indicators engine oil indicators windscreen washer reservoir. direction indicators. lifting the vehicle instrument panel changing a wheel lighting information and general advice glovebox welcome aboard your vehicle. interior instrument panel luggage compartment lighting exterior FRA UD Index BFB KFB Renault ALPHABETICAL INDEX instrument panel maintenance interior bodywork see me home interior trim lights mechanical adjustment. mileage before service changing bulbs map front battery lights hands free adjusting. use adjustment of headlight beam height. map reading lights brake lights massage seat massage. daytime running lights. menu for customising the vehicle settings dipped beam headlights methods of restraint in addition to the seat belts direction indicator lights. mileage before service direction indicators mobile floor fog lights multimedia equipment hazard warning. multimedia equipment main beam headlights Multi Sense number plate lights reversing lights N side lights navigation lights on warning buzzer. navigation system load permitted on the roof. locking O oil change locking the doors opening the doors luggage compartment opening closing luggage compartment cover. bonnet luggage compartment floor. doors luggage compartment lighting sunroof changing bulbs opening closing luggage retaining net bonnet lumbars seat adjustment sunroof M maintenance FRA UD Index BFB KFB Renault ALPHABETICAL INDEX operating faults reagent tank reagent tank cap reagent tank capacity rear bench seat rear drive wheels operation rear parcel shelf overspeed buzzer Rear Power Sunblind. overspeed warning rear screen de icing demisting rear seats P functions paint rear seats maintenance rear view camera parking assistance assisted parking rear view mirrors remote control parking brake batteries parking distance control remote control remote control door locking pedestrian detection batteries power assisted steering. remote control door locking unit precautions during use RENAULT card pretensioners use. puncture replacement emergency spare wheel tyres. tyres replacement parts. puncture reverse gear selecting R reversing sensor radio roof bars radio frequency remote control key roof rack battery roof bars use running in range with fuel reading lights S reagent. safety distance warning reagent tank safety distances reagent quality SCR selective catalytic reduction FRA UD Index BFB KFB Renault ALPHABETICAL INDEX screen stopping the engine fold away screen. storage compartment navigation display storage compartments navigation screen storage organisation screen wash wipe luggage compartment screens storage organisation. multimedia screen. sun visor sunroof switching on the vehicle ignition seat base seat belt pretensioners T front seat belt tailgate seat belt pretensioners tank seat belts Brake fluid. seats Coolant. driver seat with position memory. tanks and reservoirs driver adjustment of driving position. windscreen washer. seats. technical specifications service sheets telephone settings temperature regulation configuration menu tool kit settings towing sign detection overspeed warning breakdown signals and lights towing equipment special features of diesel versions towing special features of petrol vehicles towing a caravan speed towing hitch gear change indicator. towing rings overspeed warning towing weights. speed limiter traction control starting. traction control ASR starting the engine transporting children steering wheel transporting objects adjustment. in the luggage compartment. Stop Start luggage net Stop Start function on the roof FRA UD Index BFB KFB Renault ALPHABETICAL INDEX trims. washing trip computer and warning system weights welcome aboard your vehicle. tyre inflation kit wheelbrace tyre pressure wheels safety windows. tyre pressure loss warning windscreen tyre pressure monitor windscreen de icing demisting windscreen washer tyre pressures windscreen washer wiper tyres wiper blades chains. wipers replacement. blades snow tyres. wipers studded tyres. tyre pressure monitoring system tyres U unlocking the doors V variable power assisted steering vehicle detection vehicle identification. vehicle identification plates vehicle range ventilation ventilation ventilation W warning assisted parking warning buzzer warning lights FRA UD Index BFB KFB Renault FRA UD Index BFB KFB Renault. ENG UD Filler NU BFB Renault Cyan Magenta Jaune Noir Noir texte Cyan Magenta Jaune Noir Noir texte S RENAULT S.A.S. SOCI T PAR ACTIONS SIMPLIFI E AU CAPITAL DE QUAI LE GALLO BOULOGNE BILLANCOURT R.C.S. NANTERRE SIRET T L. NU S Edition anglaise